Then, the air moved.
The pale light which had once surrounded me began to recede,
and the next thing I saw was a filthy ceiling.
Both my right and left arms were extended toward the ceiling, but the right was a little different.
My right arm was mechanical, and some components were poking out from the wrist.
The fingers moved smoothly, but as they did I could hear the gentle reverberation of metal scraping against metal.
I began to sit up, slowly.
Finally I realized that the pale light which had consumed my vision came from the softly curved, oblong lid which was before me.
Apparently I had been asleep in this capsule-like thing.
Where was I?
Who was I?
Why was I here?
Asking these questions to myself provided no answers.
In an attempt to trace back my own memories, all I could recall was that pale light.
Hoping to find even the smallest hint about my memories, I climbed down from the capsule and began to wander around the room.
Even though I knew how to walk, I must not have done it for a long time. My legs were unsteady and shaky.
Taking great care not to fall over, I slowly continued my walk.
The air around me was lukewarm, and each breath I took coated my throat with dust.
Outside light was coming in through a hole in the ceiling, and its path revealed the dust in the air.
It seemed as though no one had been in this building for quite some time.
A thin layer of dust covered the floor.
I wondered what went on in this place.
A countless number of those oblong capsules dotted the huge room.
The majority of them were open.
And they were all empty.
Some of them were closed, but even they had nothing inside.
It seemed that I was the only one in the room.
No. That wasn't exactly true.
There were people leaning against the capsules and lying sprawled on the ground.
Except something was wrong.
You couldn't really call them human.
It might be more accurate to call them humanoid objects.
The mechanical parts of these humanoid objects could be seen peeking out from beneath their skin.
For some, everything above the neck was mechanical.
The mechanical arms on some were bare.
Some of their lower halves were torn, and their mechanical parts visible.
Then I remembered something about these humanoid objects.
Made for humans, to serve as their partners.
They were equipped not only with the five senses, but also emotions in order to be as close as possible to real humans.
I reached out my hand to a motionless Phiroid.
The bare, skinless arm was frighteningly similar to my own.
This was a factory.
I was made here.
Just before I was completed, this place must have been destroyed for some reason.
Before my right hand was covered with artificial skin. Staring at my mechanical arm, I reached this plausible conclusion.
Realizing what I was, I began to walk towards a wall.
There were old automatic doors with a dusty LCD reading <<CLOSED>> next to them.
I touched it with my mechanical hand.
Just as my bloodless fingertip sensed something cold and electrical, the display changed to read <<OPEN>> and the doors unsealed.
Would I be able to get out this way?
I wondered if there was someone remaining in the facility.
I wanted to meet them.
I wanted to meet a human...
To find my partner...
I pushed open the doors leading outside,
and set out in order to prove my own existence.
After arriving home, I immediately headed to the living room.
The broken music box was there.
I opened the book I took out from the library, and began to study the structure of the music box.
Just as I thought, one of the gears was broken.
That's why it didn't matter how much I turned the lever; the disc wouldn't turn, and thus no sound would come out.
But what was I to do about the gear?
Could I make one by following the dimensions listed in this book? No, I couldn't.
Without any answers, I kept turning the pages.
In the back was a list of products shown by their manufacturers, as well as a list of parts used.
When I skimmed it, my eyes fixed on a certain spot.
From what I gathered, the manufacturer of the music box also made clocks.
Which meant that they might have used some of the same precision parts in the clock.
Unexpectedly, I remembered when I had broken Madd's clock in his shop.
That clock... Maybe if he has no use for it and he's just going to throw it away, then...
If was able to use the gears inside the clock, maybe I could fix this music box.
"Rei, what are you doing?"
Just as I was figuring out how to fix it, Shiona entered the living room.
"Shiona, listen. I might be able to fix this music box using the gears from that clock in Madd's shop."
"Oh? Really?"
Shiona's smile looked happier than ever.
I could see her happiness from her expression.
"But don't push yourself too hard. I can still sing, even without the music box."
Taking the music box into her hands, Shiona began to sing.
It was the same song she sang in the chapel.
That strangely nostalgic song.
That song that made me feel a warm glow in my chest.
While Shiona gazed lovingly at the music box, I felt my resolve to fix it strengthen.
I wanted to fix the music box for her.
And I wanted her to be happy.
These thoughts made my chest feel like it might burst.
"Tomorrow, I'll go to Madd's shop again."
Maybe I could persuade him to give me his clock somehow.
But there was one thing I was worried about.
I was the one that broke the clock in the first place.
I had apologized, but that didn't mean that going there would be easy.
And just thinking about Madd getting angry left me terrified.
"I want to make lots of people smile with my brother's song."
Shiona's words reached me as I wavered.
"This song is orange... I'm sure it can turn many people's hearts orange. He told me that's what he wanted when he made it. That was my brother's wish. So I want lots of people to listen to this song. And I want lots of people to smile. I guess that's my wish."
Shiona carried on, as though she were talking to herself,
but her words pushed me toward my goal.
I was going to Madd's shop once again the next day.
And I was going to apologize for breaking his clock once again.
Shiona's voice and the music box reinforced my resolve.
The next day, I went to Madd's shop alone.
I thought of turning back countless times along the way,
but what kept me going was Shiona's smile.
I wanted to look at that smile all day.
And that's why I wanted to fix that music box for her.
I thought about how determined I was the day before,
and about what I could do for Shiona.
I made up my mind, and stepped into Madd's shop.
"How dare you show your face around here!"
Immediately after, Madd's words rolled over me like distant thunder.
I wanted to run away, but I didn't.
"I wanted to apologize more properly for what I did yesterday."
"About the clock? Didn't you already apologize?"
"I had Shiona with me then. I wanted to try to do it by myself, properly."
"I don't need this crap. Just get the hell outta here."
"I'm sorry, but I cannot do that. I'm really sorry for breaking your clock yesterday."
"You're wasting your breath. The clock is still broken, so just go home."
"I'm sorry. I'm really, really sorry."
I kept apologizing while keeping my head down.
How much time went by like that?
Finally, Madd spoke with a slightly softened tone.
"Hey. Look at me."
I did what he said. There stood Madd, with what seemed to be a look of surprise on his face.
"I can't believe it. You're a real piece of work. There's nothing more annoying or persistent than you."
"I'm sorry..."
"Stop apologizing or I'll smack you."
Although he said that, it seemed to lack the anger from yesterday.
I thought I noticed the sound of a small sigh coming from him.
"So, are you finished? Go home already."
"Actually... I have one favor to ask."
"A favor? Boy, you have some nerve coming in here asking me for a favor."
My feet were frozen with fright, but Shiona's words pushed me forward.
"That clock... Will you give it to me?"
"...say that again."
"Uhm... That clock, will you gi---"
"YOU'VE GOTTA BE JOKING!!"
I froze, standing at attention like I had just been struck by lightning.
"So after you break it, you think I'll just hand it over? Don't get so cocky!"
It was pointless...
I had to give up...
Just as I was about to run away, a voice came from behind me.
"Madd, wait. Rei just wants to fix my brother's music box."
I thought she was at home, but there stood Shiona.
Shiona stepped between me and Madd fearlessly.
"My brother's music box is broken, and Rei said he'd fix it for me. He just wants parts for that. He really regrets breaking your clock yesterday. So won't you please just forgive him?"
She kept smiling as she explained to Madd.
"Hm... Hmmmmm..."
Madd's expression slowly softened, and the bright red hue drained from his face.
"Sorry to break it to you, but I don't have it anymore. I don't need things like that, so I threw it away. But..."
Madd turned away from us, but continued to speak.
"I tossed it in the abandoned factory at the edge of town. Whatever happened after that is out of my hands."
Saying this, Madd sat down facing the wall.
"Thank you very much, Madd."
Still smiling, Shiona gave Madd a slight bow and left the shop.
"Th-Thank you very much..."
I made the same slight bow and left the shop.
"Say, that abandoned factory is right by the place you collapsed."
She informed me as we left the shop.
"Uh, that's the place where you throw away trash, right?"
"That's right. That place gets a lot of trash from all around."
"Does Madd take items he finds there, fix them up, and sell them in his shop?"
"Probably, yeah. He goes there quite a bit."
It made sense. So that was why he had so much old stuff in his shop.
He took things that were still usable, and then proceeded to reuse them.
Whatever the case, I decided to head off toward the abandoned factory.
"Shiona, if it's okay, could you guide me to where the garbage dump is?"
"I'm sorry, but I can't. Today the red children are coming over to the house."
She probably meant the children that talked to her the day before.
When I thought about it, she also promised to treat them to soup.
"But Rei, you can't just go alone. I'll just break off my plans with the children."
"No, don't worry about it, Shiona. Keep your promise to them."
"But how are you going to get there?"
"I'm going to go to the library. I want to look over a map and learn about this area."
"The library..."
Shiona's expression seemed to cloud slightly.
"Ah... No, it's nothing. ...Hey, Rei? Has Tipi become attached to you?"
"Good question. I wouldn't say she hates me. Why?"
"Oh, it's nothing. There will definitely be a map at the library. I'll see you soon."
"Yeah. I'll check it out. See you later."
Turning around, I headed toward the library.
At the time, her smile seemed a bit off. Like it was fraught with sorrow.
But I didn't know why.
"Rei, you came back."
Tipi was in the same spot, still crying the same way.
"Yeah. I'm here. Hey Tipi, can I ask you something?"
"Do you have any maps of the town in this library?"
"Of course. We have lots."
"Great. Can you show me where they are?"
"That's fine but... but..."
Tipi couldn't get the words out.
"No, that's not it... That's not it... But..."
"Will you hold me in your arms?"
Tipi blushed slightly.
She still looked sad, but her cheeks were a bit rosier.
"Hold you? Do you mean like last time?"
"Yes... Is that okay?"
"No, it's fine. Come over here."
"Okay... Okay..."
I extended my arms and she got up, then hesitantly jumped up to my chest.
I was holding her, although differently than last time.
But I thought the same things.
Holding her, I noticed how small and soft and fragile she was.
"Is this okay, Tipi?"
"Yes... This is good. Rei... You're warm."
Tipi began rubbing her cheek against my chest.
I could feel my chest grow warm as she did.
Was this emotion the feeling of fondness?
I wanted to protect this girl.
I wanted to stop her tears.
I stayed there and held Tipi for a moment.
"Um, can you walk over there like this?"
Tipi pointed the way to go while she snuggled against my chest.
I followed her directions while I continued to hold her.
"Why do you need a map?"
"Apparently there's an abandoned factory near the town. And that's where I want to go."
"Why do you want to go to an abandoned factory?"
"I'm looking for a part, and it might be there."
"Is it for that music box you were looking at yesterday?"
"Yeah, that's right. I want to fix Shiona's brother's music box, no matter what."
"Shiona's... I see. It'd be nice if you found it."
As I carried her, Tipi led me directly to the shelf that held the book of maps.
"Did you really memorize where each book is?"
"Yeah, just about."
"That's amazing. Did someone teach you?"
"Nope. I learned it by myself while I waited for mommy and daddy to return."
After saying the words mommy and daddy, Tipi's eyes began to well up.
"Ah... I think this is it."
I took out a book of maps, just to change the subject.
Sitting down right there, I opened the book.
This one also had hand-drawn maps, just like the book about music boxes.
Were all the books in this library handwritten?
Their number was phenomenal, if that were so.
Just who in the world had written so many books by hand?
I almost felt faint on contemplating the endless stretches of time required for such work.
"This is pretty beaten up... How old is this book?"
"Uhm... I don't know. It's a really, really, really, really old book."
I thought it was a map from decades ago.
But the buildings seemed to be in the same locations as in the town right now.
There were some pages that were badly discolored, as though tea had been spilled on them.
Some were even stuck together. I suspected they'd rip if I pulled on them.
I flipped through the pages carefully.
"Oh, I think this may be it."
I found the symbol for the factory located in the north of the town.
Judging by the distance from Shiona's house, as well, it was very likely that this was the place.
"Rei... Are you leaving? Don't go..."
Tipi began clinging to my neck.
I patted her tiny back countless times.
"Don't worry. I'll be back again."
"Really? You'll really come back again?"
"Of course. I promise."
"Cross your heart? And hope to die?"
"Yeah. I cross my heart and hope to die."
I kept promising over and over to Tipi.
Why did I do that?
Regardless, I felt wrong when I left.
A feeling bubbled up inside me, and urged me to stay there with Tipi forever.
I pushed down the feeling, and made my way out of the library.
As I entered the ruined factory that the map led me to, I could smell oxidized oil.
Apparently this factory used to produce arms and legs for Phiroids.
There were unfinished Phiroid arms and legs scattered all around me.
None of them had artificial skin applied to them yet, so the machinery was clearly visible.
Looking closely, I could see that they were built the same as my own right hand.
I knew these were just inanimate objects, but it was still a creepy sight.
I tried to push away some of the scattered arms with my right hand.
The sound of metal hitting metal echoed sadly through the factory.
I decided I should come back here if any part of my body were to break.
There were plenty of spare parts to be found here.
There were several large drums full of oil in the back.
Most were oxidized, but there were some unopened ones too.
If I ever ran out of oil, I figured I could come here for maintenance where no one would see me.
The farther I walked into the factory, the more my worries seemed to fade away.
This abandoned factory was sure to be an important place for me.
But I couldn't find the one thing I was looking for.
That was, of course, the clock that Madd supposedly left here.
But there were no clocks in this factory, or anything that looked like trash at all.
Perhaps the trash was thrown away outside, rather than inside the factory?
I left the factory for a moment to look around outside.
Just behind the factory, I found a whole area piled high with machine parts.
There was a lot of trash strewn around among the machine parts, as well.
It must have been the town dump.
There were probably more people than just Madd who came here to look for things they could use.
I looked up at the mountain of trash, several times taller than myself.
"So, where could it be?"
There was a huge amount of trash.
Conducting a systematic search would be a backbreaking job.
But there was nothing else I could do.
I immediately got to work, starting with the pile at my feet.
I don't know how long it took.
It had been a long while since I'd felt any sense of time passing.
My hands were filthy from having moved the dirty metal plates and oil-covered containers.
My clothes were slick with oil, and large stains had appeared all over them.
But even then, I continued to cross the carpet of trash, swim through filthy rivers, and bathe under scrap metal waterfalls.
Finally, I found it.
The clock from Madd's shop.
The one I broke yesterday.
I found it.
I picked it up, and watched its hands closely.
Of course they weren't moving.
I put it up to my ear, but it made no sound.
This was only to be expected, since I'd broken it.
This clock would probably never tell time again.
That realization felt like a small stab to the chest.
I clutched the clock gently to my body, and started walking back the way I'd come.
Shiona greeted me kindly.
"I'm back. Here it is."
I held out my oil-stained prize, and Shiona smiled pleasantly.
"Oh, that's it. Thank you. Here, hurry and change."
Shiona gave me a towel and a change of clothes.
I wiped off the oil and changed, and then went to the living room.
Shiona greeted me again there.
"Rei, you must be tired, right? Have something to eat and get some rest."
"No, I'm fine. I want to get right to work."
"Will you be okay? I'm worried about you."
"I'm fine. For some reason I don't feel tired at all right now."
"But you have to eat..."
"Yeah, I know. I'll eat later, so you go ahead and eat now."
"...Okay. Good luck."
Shiona left the living room.
I watched her leave, and then got to work.
I opened up the book I'd borrowed from the library.
This music box was made so that when someone turned the handle, gears of different sizes turned against each other, spinning a disc at a set speed.
Apparently, turning the handle faster wouldn't speed up the song at all.
I was really impressed by that technology.
I followed the book's assembly instructions backwards, and took the music box apart.
Then I compared which parts were visible. Partway through, I noticed that the drive gear was broken.
Due to its high precision, a simple break in just one tiny part caused it to stop working.
I suddenly found myself looking at my right hand.
First, I would need to search the clock for something the size of the cracked gear.
Next I started taking the clock apart.
I took off the case, and used a screwdriver to remove the screws.
When I removed the case, I could see the machinery inside.
It was full of gears far more precise than those in the music box.
One of them, a rather large gear, had a broken axle. That's what prevented it from working.
That was probably where I'd broken it yesterday.
Madd threw away the clock because there was no replacement gear of the same size.
Fortunately, the broken gear wasn't one of the sizes I needed for the music box.
Taking things apart made me feel awkward somehow.
After all, I had to break the clock in order to fix the music box.
Maybe I felt this way because I knew exactly what I was.
I hesitated a bit, but then took apart the clock as carefully as possible, to show it some respect.
I lined the clock's gears up on the table by size and compared them to the one from the music box.
"There it is."
I had found a gear that was roughly the same size.
Now all I had to do was follow the book's instructions and transplant it into the music box.
"I think this should do it..."
Now the disc should spin without any problems.
I replaced the casing, and when I turned the handle, I could feel some resistance.
But the handle wouldn't turn.
What was wrong?
I looked back at the book.
The parts were correct, and I'd put them in the right places.
I tilted my head in confusion, and took the casing off again.
Then I turned the handle with the casing still off.
The gears were definitely aligned correctly.
But, perhaps because it hadn't been used in a while, the oil was all dried up.
Maybe that's why the handle wouldn't turn.
What to do...?
Should I go to Shiona and borrow some of her cooking oil?
No, that wouldn't work.
Cooking oil probably wasn't the same as the oil used to grease gears.
It might work at first, but then cause problems later on.
So then what should I...?
Then I looked at my own right hand.
It was covered with a glove, but there were exposed machine parts beneath that.
Perhaps the oil used in my own hand would work.
I took off my glove, and looked closely at my right hand...
at the machinery that was now clearly visible.
There was oil inside it, to make it move smoothly.
I stuck the screwdriver into my palm near the base of my thumb.
When I removed the casing, I could see all the machinery used to move my hand, like wires, cylinders, and shafts.
There was oil inside one of those cylinders.
It was easily removable, to make it possible to replace the old oil.
I used my left hand to take out the cylinder, and dripped oil from inside it onto the music box gears.
I spread the oil around with my fingertips to get it on all the gears.
Would this work?
I put the cylinder back into my right hand, and replaced the casing.
After hiding my mechanical hand inside the glove again, I nervously turned the crank.
At first it moved awkwardly. But as I turned the handle, the gears began to turn smoothly.
At some point the oil must have worked itself in between all of the gears, and the handle began turning without catching at all.
And then that melody started to play.
"Rei, that song...!"
Shiona suddenly came into the room.
"Yeah. It's fixed, Shiona."
"Thank you... Thank you, Rei. Thank you... I'm so, so happy!"
Shiona smiled more brightly than I'd ever seen before.
Just seeing her smile like that made a warmth build up inside my chest.
And then I noticed.
Oh, this must be it.
This was what joy felt like.
In that moment, I felt joy.
I was overjoyed to see Shiona smile.
And for the first time, I felt like I'd done something useful.
"Thank you Rei, thank you!"
Shiona took my hand and thanked me again and again.
As her face drew close to mine, I could feel my own grow hot.
"It's fixed thanks to your hard work, Rei. I'd given up on ever hearing that song again, but now I can. This orange-colored song that my brother wrote. This song that I love..."
"Hey, Shiona, sing it for me. Let me hear your brother's song."
"Yes... Of course!"
I turned the handle on the music box.
Shiona clasped her hands in front of her chest, and started singing along with the melody.
It was the song she'd been singing when we met.
The song that Shiona's brother wrote.
That orange-colored song.
I felt like I finally understood it.
The feeling inside of me - it was joy.
Shiona's song,
and Shiona's happiness as she sang it...
Just watching her sing made me overflow with joy.
Shiona sang more happily than ever before.
That day, Shiona kept singing until she fell asleep.
And I listened closely, lost in the song.
Shiona asked me again and again to play the song for her.
She kept singing, until I could hardly keep moving my arm.
And as I watched her expression, I thought,
I want to be together with Shiona forever.
If Shiona wished for that too, I could be with her always.
But for that to be possible, I couldn't let my true self be discovered.
Absolutely not...
That day, I was more determined than ever to stay with Shiona forever.
It was night, and the room had grown dark.
As we lay side by side in our beds, Shiona spoke to me.
"Can I ask you a favor?"
"Well, I'd like to share this song with as many people as I can. And I want to make them smile. I want to make people happy, through my brother's song."
I knew the word itself.
But I didn't know exactly what it meant.
Was it a state of being?
Or was it an emotion?
I repeated the word "happy" to myself, again and again in my head.
"So I want you to help me."
"Help? What do you want me to do?"
"Come with me to the plaza tomorrow, and play the music box."
"'And you'll sing, right, Shiona?"
"Yes. And I want as many people as possible to hear it. The orange-colored song that my brother wrote..."
"Yes, I'd like that too. Of course I'll help."
I heard the sheets rustle.
"What is it, Shiona?"
"Hey, Rei... Can I hold your hand?"
It was too dark for me to see Shiona's expression.
But I think she was blushing.
"You want to hold hands? With me?"
"Yes, I want to hold hands with you... Don't you want to?"
I searched through all of my knowledge.
I knew that sometimes people held hands.
But I thought that held a special meaning for young men and women...
"Sure, it's fine..."
If a human... If Shiona wanted something, I wanted to grant it to them.
Fortunately, she was to my left.
Since my hand covered with artificial skin was on that side, I didn't think it would be a problem.
I reach out toward the bed next to mine.
My hand felt cold in the chilly room.
I searched blindly for Shiona's hand.
When I touched it, it felt warm.
Shiona's hand clasped my own.
"You're warm, Rei."
"Yeah... You're warm too, Shiona."
We held hands.
Our fingers intertwined naturally, without either of us really initiating it.
I felt the warmth spread, and it wasn't just the body warmth from our hands.
This was different from my artificial warmth. It was human warmth...
"Rei... tighter."
"Like this...?"
"I'm sorry, did that hurt?"
"No... It was just tighter than I expected."
"How's this?"
"It's good... Thank you, Rei."
We held hands all night long.
Our hands were still clasped together when the morning light woke us.
The next day, we filled the plaza with sound.
Shiona and I started performing.
Shiona sang.
I played her brother's music box.
At first, no one wandered by.
But little by little, people gathered to hear Shiona's singing voice.
First one, then two people stopped, and soon there was a small ring of them.
Not long after that the ring of people grew larger, and the once-deserted plaza bustled with activity.
Everyone there was entranced by Shiona's song.
A young couple leaned in close to each other and held hands.
An old woman closed her eyes with deep emotion.
A young man gazed at a young lady standing a little ways away.
Parents and children laughed happily together.
The children were moving their bodies along with the music.
They were all listening to Shiona's song in their own way.
But they had one thing in common.
They were all smiling.
Everyone listening to Shiona's song had smiles on their faces.
I too felt a warmth deep down in my chest, knowing that I was helping to make all of these people smile.
This is what it is to feel happy.
The emotion I felt yesterday when I saw Shiona's smile.
This is really it.
I was happy.
I felt my cheeks lift a little.
I must have been smiling.
I probably looked a little awkward,
but I didn't mind.
If it brought me even a little closer to Shiona, that was enough for me.
The newly-fixed music box kept playing its melody without a hitch.
The handle spun easily.
The sounds from the disc echoed and were amplified by the wooden box, and spread throughout the air.
Shiona called it an orange-colored melody.
And along with that melody, Shiona sang.