Ever since I was summoned to this fantasy world, I've been fighting alongside a group of other heroes in order to save the world. Until today...
Huh? W-Wait, what do you mean I'm fired?!
I stare back at my party members in confusion.
You heard me. I let you join us because you seemed pretty strong, but you haven't done shit, so you're fired.
Of course I don't do shit, I'm a monster tamer, my monsters do the shitting!
The guy looks over to another one of our party members, shaking his head.
Look, after you summon your monsters, what do you do? You just stand there. And the only freaking monsters you ever summon are those lame slimes!
We're a group of heroes! If you could summon a guardian angel or something that would be fitting, but slimes?! Dude...
M-My slimes are awesome! I can change their forms any way I'd like! And they do anything I tell them! Don't tell me that isn't cool!
I am a hero just like the others, so while the only monster I'm able to summon is a slime, the slimes are incredibly powerful.
And the ability to control them freely as if they're a part of my own body is something no other monster tamers can do, but the other heroes still just shake their heads.
They're not awesome, they're gross. I don't want our party being known for having a guy who controls slimes on it...
Not only do we have to deal with having such a lame party member, but we even have to share our rewards with you...
S-Share?! I barely get any! I only get a tiny bit of the rewards, while you guys go off drinking and partying with hot chicks. I get none of that!
As thanks for helping the country, the king pays the other guys a crap ton of money, and thanks to that and their fame they bang hot chicks on a daily basis.
I've been hoping they would eventually let me in on some of that, so I haven't complained about the terrible pay I've been getting so far.
Even now they are drinking fancy wine while they have beautiful women hanging over their shoulders. Meanwhile I'm at a different table eating a crappy meal by myself.
Well of course. We haven't needed your stupid slimes at all recently, so why should you get any more.
That's right. Honestly I don't see what we need you for at all. Right girls?
He says, as he grabs one of the nearby girls' boobs.
Ahhn~ That's right. I mean, you're clearly a big and tough hero, but that guy summoning slimes? Aren't those like, super weak and stuff? Lame♪
So there you have it. Oh, and give us your armor and stuff. That belongs to the party, after all.
O-Oh yeah! That's true! Strip, slime boy! I bet we could sell that stuff for a lot of money. Hand it over.
Hey, guys. I don't mind taking his stuff, but at least let's leave him with something to cover up. I don't want these pure maidens seeing his gross body.
Maidens? Ahh you're so sweet~ I'll have to pay you back for that kindness tonight~
And so my teammates start taking off my equipment.
H-Hey, seriously?! Stop, ahg,?! Knock it off!
After being kicked out of the party and stripped of anything valuable, I'm thrown out of the tavern.
Achoo! Ugh... it's freaking cold...
I collapse on the side of the road, freezing from the cold evening air.
They freaking kicked me out?! I figured I'd at least get to fuck one hot chick while I was a part of their party...
In my past life I'd never in a million years get to be with the beauties these guys get to play with.
So I decided to suck it up and deal with the bad treatment in hopes I'd at least be able to lose my virginity to one of those beauties.
If only I at least got to do that, I'd be fine with all the crap they've put me through…!
I punch the ground in anger, when suddenly a nice scent tickling my nose makes me look up.
As I do I spot a group of stunning women walking past me.
Look at her... perfect face, huge tits, big, soft-looking ass... that one must be the rumored number one beauty around here.
Ahh... if I could lose my virginity to a beauty like that I could die happy.
While I fantasize the group scatters a little, revealing a certain familiar face in the middle.
Haha, I can't believe I get to be with someone as beautiful as you. Kicking that loser out and selling his stuff was a great idea!
Oh my~ I'd be happy to spend the night with you any time you want, mighty hero~
Man, you're lucky! I'll stay in this party forever!
Her friends are so cute! Guess we won't be sleeping tonight, huh!
Haha, seems that way. I've booked the best room in town, so let's go have fun!
Eeek~ You'll keep us up all night?♪
I stare at them in anger as they walk out of my sight.
F-Fuuuck! Are you serious?! They kicked me out and sold my shit to go have a party?!
I punch the ground again as hard as I can, losing control of my incredibly strong magic.
I'd even be their fucking slaves, or whatever, if it means I could fuck a chick that hot! Yet the just kick me out?! Fuck! Fuck those assholes!
I hit the ground again and again. A trail of dark energy seeps out from me as I lose control of my magic, scaring off nearby onlookers, but I don't give a shit.
I bet those assholes are off fucking like rabbits right now! Just thinking about how beautiful those women were is getting me hard! I want in! I want in so bad!
Lust and fury erupt through me, mixing with my magic as it flows out of my body.
Shit, shit! Fine, fuck them! Fuck those guys! I'll use my powers to summon the hottest fucking woman in the whole world and show them!
It feels like a bomb goes off inside my body.
Arggh, what the hell?! Ahhg, my energy is being sucked out of my body?!
My vision goes dark, and my body starts going limp.
Argh, shit… all my magic is being sucked out?! Agh, I-I can't stop it?!
Fuck, what's happening?! Did I summon something? Shit, I'll die...
I feel the magic being sucked out of me as if I got hit by an energy drain spell or something. In the next moment, a beautiful voice resounds in my head.
What an incredible power source. To think a mortal being possessing such power exists. Color me intrigued. Come to me, strong one!
W-Who's there?! What's happening?! Arrgh, my body is burning up?! Huh?! I'm flying?! The hell?!
It feels like I'm literally being sucked into the ground, and my vision goes dark once more.
...
*Thump!*
Agh?! Ouch! Ow! I can see again... hmm? Where the hell am I?!
The air feels strangely heavy in this room, wherever I am.
I look around to try to figure out where I've wound up, but I have never seen a place like this before in my life.
Where am I? Is that a throne? What the...? Huh?!
I freeze up as I spot someone else in the room. Not just that, it's a woman, rivaling the stunning prostitute I just saw in town's beauty.
She has a pair of big horns sprouting from her head, and a strange tail wagging between her legs. She's definitely not human, but damn is she beautiful.
She's a perfect ten. Beautiful face, incredible tits and ass.
W-Whoa, whoa... s-she's so beautiful... so fucking hot...
Even the simplest of movements makes her beautiful long hair sway, taking my breath away.
The beautiful woman looks at me for a second, then lets out a disappointed sigh.
Hmph. I got my hopes up from your incredible magical power and wicked urges, but you're a simple human male? How disappointing.
Y-You're the voice I heard earlier! Y-You summoned me here, right?! Where are we?!
It's taking every shred of kindness in me to even let you gaze upon me, yet you dare address me in such a rude way? I'll have your head, human.
She stares at me like she's about to stop on an ant with her boot.
M-My head?! Eek?!
That simple stare is enough to tell me that this woman is on a totally different level than me. Heck, even the hero's party wouldn't stand a chance.
Well, I'll allow it. I summoned you here because of your impressive magic. I suppose eating your soul should prove somewhat enjoyable.
Her stare keeps me literally frozen in place. Each second feels like an eternity, until she finally looks away, letting me move again.
Let me answer your questions, human. My name is Lucifer. I sensed your magic, and decided to summon you to my throne room.
S-Summon? I'm a summoner and was trying to summon something strong, but you summoned me instead? It's supposed to be the other way around!
My interest was peaked by such power existing on the surface, so I decided to play along. But you're hardly strong enough to summon me, so I lent you a hand.
Of course a mere human would never be able to summon me, the mighty fallen angel Lucifer! The one who rules over Hell itself!
F-Fallen angel?! Hell?! Seriously?!
I've heard of Lucifer in legends. A powerful and beautiful angel let astray by evil, who was thrown down to Hell, becoming the first fallen angel.
She's said to be as strong as God, and after being cast down she turned Hell into her own domain.
It seems like you know of me after all. That makes things easy. Let us move over to the Soul Binding Ritual, human.
The Soul Binding Ritual is what we summoners do in order to bind a monster to us for good. Once a soul is bound, the summoner has complete control over the monster.
If the monster is unwilling, the summoner and the monster's wills fight until one comes out on top, controlling the losing party.
I-In other words, the loser has their soul stolen...
Thet's the reason I've only ever summoned slimes. I'm terrified of a strong monster winning and taking my soul.
Hehe, that's right. So let's begin. Entertain me while I eat your soul, human! You'll be my plaything for eternity!
Lucifer lets out an evil laugh, making her large bust jiggle like jelly.
Of course, even in this moment of crippling fear, my eyes are glued to her ass and tits.
Haha... e-even now, huh... I am one horny bastard. O-Okay, I-I won't give up... I want to fuck a hot chick before I die!
What powerful lust. Such determination. Do you honestly think you stand a chance against someone like me, human? Hehe~
Hmph! You'll take my soul no matter what, right? So I might as well try! I'll believe in my urge to fuck!
I'm probably going to die from this duel. But she's definitely just going to kill me either way, so might as well try.
Hehehe, looks like you've made your peace. Well then, what type of match would you like, human!
Well then, I challenge you to a sex-off, with my dick! The first one to surrender loses!
I nervously take off my pants and show off my erect dick to Lucifer.
What?! You filthy... how dare you point that thing at me! I'd never accept such a perverted duel!
I ignore Lucifer and start casting the Soul Binding Ritual.
As proof that it worked, Lucifer's wings and tail suddenly vanish, as some of her power becomes sealed until the ritual is over.
Oh shit, nice! It worked! The ritual started!
Even such a foolish challenge gets accepted for the ritual here? What a primitive, good-for-nothing place this is...
Now let's do this! Bring it!
I decide that if I'm going to die, I'm at least going to do everything I can to get one fuck in before I do and stick out my dick as I charge at Lucifer.
Ugh... I want to kill you instantly for even thinking about approaching me with that thing, but if I do it would violate the rules...
Exactly! The fight is on! If you try hurting me physically, you automatically lose!
As if I'd let myself lose to a mortal like you. I'd never lose to a weakling like you, even at... sex. Very well! I'll show you who's inferior here! Ugh...
Lucifer stares at my dick in anger but starts approaching it nonetheless.
Hnng?! What a strong smell... how dare you put such a filthy thing near me... ugh, just the smell is unbearable... and it's so big...
Lucifer winces the moment my dick gets close to her face.
What, are you ready to give up already? We haven't even started yet!
I want Lucifer to lick my dick so bad, I'm shaking, with pre-cum trickling out from the tip.
As if! The size might have taken me a little by surprise, but it's... still just a human's penis! I'll knock you out in no time.
I might not have any experience, but... I'll still teach you a lesson, human!
Seriously?! You're the ruler of Hell, and you're a virgin?! You're just riling me up here!
I can't hold back any longer and push my dick against Lucifer's soft lips.
Hnnng?! Mhhg, you bastard, mhhhg! D-Don't put that dirty thing on, mhhhg, face... sllrp!
Pleasure spreads through my crotch as I push my dick against Lucifer's face.
It feels so nice rubbing my cock against her lips, I don't care at all about the stare of hatred she's sending me.
Ahhh, women's lips are so soft! I can't believe a woman is kissing my dick! Haah, more pre-cum is coming out!
Mhhhg?! You bastard, what is this?! Mhhhg, something filthy is... coming out, mmhg, sllrp?!
You bastard! Mhhhg, s-stop letting that stuff out! Hnng, you're just a mere human, how dare you! Mhhg, sllrp?!
My body trembles as I bask in the pleasure of feeling a woman's tongue against my dick for the first time.
Bhhhg?! W-Wait, you bastard, stop moving! Mhhhg?! Stop pushing that thing against me... stop, mhhhg?!
*Squelch! Squelch!*
Mhhhhhg! Sllrp, mmhg?! Stop... sllrp, bhhg, y-you... mhhg, slllrp?!
I start moving my hips back and forth, rubbing my dick against her lips over and over.
Ahhh, more! More! Haah, I can't stop, this feels too good!
Bhhhg, mhhhg?! Stop, sllllrp, mhhhg?! Hnng, it's hitting my throat?! Sllllrp?!
Slllrp, mhhhg, hnng, sllrp, mmhg! Bhhhg, sllrp, stop, mhhhg?!
Lucifer glares at me in anger, her body shaking as I continue thrusting my dick into her mouth.
Some of my pubes get stuck to her pretty lips, and shivers run up my spine from the joy of dirtying her beautiful face.
Ahh, that's a good look on you! I can't stop moving, ahhh! Keep that up!
Mhhhg?! I-I'm not doing anything for you, hnng?! Sllrp, you filthy human!
Slllrp, mmmhg, just hurry up and finish, sllllrp, just get it over with and die!
The pleasure has already made me forget that this is a fight to the death. I simply don't care anymore.
If you want me to finish then start sucking it on your own! You wanted to beat me, didn't you?
Hnng, y-yes... this is a duel... y-you'll regret challenging me! Hnng, slllrp, I-I suppose you want to die quickly!
I-I'll suck the semen out of this thing and beat you down! Prepare yourself, human! I won't hold back!
A simple taunt is enough to make Lucifer start sucking my dick by herself.
Sllllrp, mmmmhg, slllllrp, mmhg, mmwah! Slllrp, mmwah, slllllrp!
Intense pleasure erupts through my body as Lucifer starts furiously sucking on my dick like a vacuum.
Mhhg, hahaha! Looks like it's working! I'll keep going then, slllrp, mmwah, slllrp!
Hearing me moan seems to make Lucifer cocky, as she starts desperately sucking onto my dick, licking it all over.
The soft insides of her cheeks wrap around my glans, making shivers run up my spine.
Ahh, that's it! You're making the head of my dick tingle nicely! I feel it all the way down my balls!
Hnng, slllrp, of course! Mhhg, sllrp, mmwah! I'm getting serious here, after all, sllrp, mmwah!
Hnng, slllrp, hurry up and climax, then surrender, sllrp! Let it out, then die! Sllrp, sllllrp!
Ahhh, that feels good! Shit, this feels too good! Blowjobs are the best! Man, you're good with your tongue! Ahhh!
Pre-cum leaks out of my dick like I'm wetting myself, filling Lucifer's mouth.
Hnnng?! Looks like it's working! Slllrp, mmmhg, I'll suck you dry!
Slllrp, mmmhg, mmwah, sllrp, hnnng, slllrp! Keep squealing for me, lowly human, sllllrp!
Despite of her clear anger, seeing me enjoying myself seems to get her worked up too. Having a woman suck my dick so earnestly is the hottest thing I've ever seen.
Ahhh, you're too sexy! If you keep drinking my pre-cum like that I'll go crazy! Haah, but I can't stop it from flowing out, this feels too good!
I'm unable to stop my hips, simply stirring up Lucifer's mouth like a sex toy.
Hnnng♪ Slllrp, I'm being serious now, so of course it feels good! Sllllrp, I'll suck even harder, slllrp!
Hnng, slllrp, this is nothing, sllrp, I-I'll drink down your filthy juices... sllrp, ahhn!
Lucifer's voice grows dyed with pleasure for a second.
Hnng, slllrp, w-what just happened... I... slllrp, mmhg, haah, hnng, slllrp!
For just a split second, I could clearly see Lucifer's eyes filled with ecstasy from sucking my dick.
Hahaha! Looks like the Queen of Hell likes dick, huh!
Excitement and pleasure fills and spreads throughout my body, pooling down in my crotch.
I-I don't, I'd never... sllrp, don't be stupid, mhhg, sllrp, mmwah, hnng, sllrp!
You clearly are! Don't try to hide it, look at how hard you're sucking, you slut! You clearly love every second of this!
Of course not, slllrp, a weakling like you could, slllrp, n-never excite me! Sllrp, mhhg, ohoo!
Haah, w-why am I sucking so hard?! Slllrp, mmhg, I can't stop!
Lucifer's constant sucking quickly makes it harder and harder to endure the pleasure.
Ahhh, shit! You're sucking so hard, I'm going to cum! Ahhh, keep going just like that! I'm cumming!
Hnng, slllrp, it's over?! Good, go ahead and cum and end this! Sllrp, ohooo, mmhg, slllrp?!
Lucifer widens her eyes as she desperately starts sucking on the head of my dick, trying to finish me off.
Hnng, ahhh, why do I feel disappointed knowing it's going to end?! Hnng, i-if I take your seed in my throat now, I-I'll... wait!
Ahhh, of course I won't wait! Don't be stupid! I'm cumming, ahhh! Haah, cumming!
Pleasure rushes up from my balls, and I thrust deeper inside Lucifer's throat as I approach climax.
Bhhhhg, slllrp, mmmmhg, wait, hnnng, slllrp, my throat?! Bhhhg!
Hnnng, slllrp, hnng, mhhhg, ohooo, your filthy juices are, hnnng, coming for my throat!
*Spluuurt! Spluuuurt!*
Hnng, mmmhg, oooh, sllllrp! Hnng, it's coming, mhhhhg, hnnng!
Lucifer starts twitching as my ejaculation sprays into the back of her throat.
Mhhhg, bhhhg, hnnng?! It's coming, hnnng, s-stop... hnng, slllrp!
Ahhhh, that feels so amazing! I can't stop! My balls are being sucked dry!
*Spluurt!*
Hnnng?! It keeps coming... hnng, mhhhg, slllrp, I-I'm drinking your filthy juices, mmhg, sllllrp!
Hnng, mmhg, sllrp, my lower half is getting warm... hnnng, sllrp, I can't stop my tongue, sllrp!
The intense suction in the back of her throat milks the cum out of my dick, sending intense pleasure up my shaft.
I've never seen something as lewd as Lucifer's face as she drinks my cum.
Mhhhhg, w-why is my body enjoying this! What humiliation, hnnng, slllrp, mmwah, no way, sllrp, I'm enjoying it!
Slllrp, mmmhg, hnng?! Mhhhg, m-make it stop, hnng, mmmhg, sllrp?!
She continues moving her tongue constantly, looking up at me like this isn't enough.
Ahh... wow, your lips are so soft...
I grin as I watch Lucifer cleaning up the remnants of semen left on my dick.
Mhhhg, you should be honored! You get to taste the pleasure of my lips before anyone else, slllrp♪
See, I've... defeated your dick, slllrp! A mere human is, slllrp, no match for me at sex! Slllrp!
(Wait, does she think we're having sex right now? Does she not know what a blowjob is?)
Sure enough, Lucifer seems to think that was the end of things.
Hnng, sllrp, how does it feel knowing that was the last pleasure you'll ever know, slllrp, mhhg♪
(And she's clearly done with the blowjob, yet she keeps licking it for no reason. Does she not even realize that she's doing it?)
My dick starts throbbing again as excitement once again fills my mind.
Hnng?! You bastard, why is your dick getting hard again?! Hnng, w-what are you doing, the match is over! Hnng?!
What do you mean over, that was a warm-up! A blowjob isn't sex, it's foreplay! The real competition starts now!
A-A blowjob?! But I thought it's supposed to be over when the man ejaculates? D-Don't make up your own rules, ahhh?!
I'm going to fuck this chick, even if it gets me killed. I push Lucifer down on her throne, moving my hard dick down towards her crotch.
Get this shit off, I can't fuck you like this! Show me your pussy and spread your legs!
But you already climaxed! I'm supposed to have won! Why didn't the ritual end?!
I inspect Lucifer's beautiful body while she babbles on by herself. My eyes are glued to her big tits and her pretty pussy.
A-A naked chick! Ahh, a pussy! Tits! Ahhh, this is too lewd! So fucking lewd!
Ugh, I don't like showing my bare skin to a mere human, but... hey! Stop staring and answer my question!
We haven't had sex until I jam my cock in your pussy! A blowjob isn't enough at all!
Ugh, I-I'm aware that mating requires penetration like you say, but... I heard that once a man ejaculates, it's over...
Didn't you hear the terms of the contract? The first one to give up loses. Does it look like my dick is ready to give up?!
My dick is already rock hard again, as the simple thought of fucking such a beautiful woman drives me near mad with arousal.
What, it's even bigger than when you put it in my mouth?! And the tip is covered in juices... hnng, haah...
*Squelch♪*
Seeing my dick makes Lucifer's pussy twitch, and a loud squelching sound fills the room.
Hahaha, are you getting wet from seeing a human dick?! Looks like I don't need to do any foreplay at all, huh!
Hnng, wet?! I-I'm not... hnng?! S-Stop pushing that thing against me! Don't touch my crotch with your filthy rod you... hnnng!
Even just gently pressing the head of my dick against her slit sends pleasant shivers up my shaft.
Wow, just a simple touch feels this good?! I'm about to lose my virginity! And I guess I'll be taking yours in the process too!
Hnng, s-stop it, hnng?! Virginity?! What... what is happening... i-it's going inside?! Stop... ohoo?!
*Squelch!*
Ahhhhn! Haah, hnng! Ahhh, haah, ohoooo!
I lean forward, and my dick tears through Lucifer's hymen, moving deep inside her pussy. At the same time, Lucifer lets out a howl as she seems to climax.
Ooooh, what did y-you do to me... hnng, it's inside... my head feels strange... hnng, ohooo!
Oh shit! This feels amazing! Pussy is the best!
Hnnng, y-you bastard, ohooo! Y-You took my first... hnng, my first time so casually?!
Lucifer stares at her own crotch in disbelief while I enjoy myself.
You're supposed to be the Queen of Hell, yet you're panicking over simply losing your virginity? You think you can win like that?
Knowing I made her cum with a single thrust of my dick fills me with confidence.
Hnnng, y-you bastard... hnng, don't walk to me like that, filthy human! I-I'd never lose to someone like you!
Ahhhg, I-I don't care about my virginity, haah! J-Just hurry up and finish, then pull out, quick!
What do you mean, I can't cum until I've stirred up your pussy for a while! Make me cum then, if you want to finish so bad!
I start rocking my hips back and forth, which makes Lucifer's body tremble.
Hnng, stop moving! D-Don't move that filthy thing around inside me! I-I won't forgive you for this! Stop it, ohooo!
Cute moans mix in with Lucifer's cries, which only helps excite me further.
I can't hold back! Guess I'll start fucking you hard! We're competing, after all!
Hnng?! Stop... haah, don't move so fast! Knock it off, human! Listen to me, ohoooo?!
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Hnnng?! Ahhh, w-what?! Ohooo, ahh, stop it, ooooh!
Her pussy feels more rigid and tight compared to her soft mouth, providing my dick with a much more intense pleasure.
The pleasure is a bit overwhelming at first, and I simply move my hips in silence as I try to endure it.
*Squelch! Squelch!*
Hnnng, oooh?! Stop, hnng, moving it around inside me! Y-You're being so rough, ooh, ahhh?!
Hnng, stop it, ohooo! Stop moving that filthy thing inside me! Stop ignoring me you l-lowly human!
Lucifer's pussy tightens up around my dick, making me just want to fuck her harder.
Damn, so nice and tight! Wow, sex feels so incredible! I can't get enough of this!
Y-You bastard, hnng, stop going so fast, ohooo! Ahh, stop! Hnng, stop spreading my insides!
I-I won't forgive you, ohooo! Y-You filth! I-I'll kill you, hnng! I'll definitely kill you!
Well your pussy feels so good, I'd die happy!
I continue rocking my hips in a trance and lift up my hand before bringing it down swiftly.
*Smack!*
Ahhhhn! W-What did you do to my breast?! H-how dare you?!
*Smack! Smack! Smack!*
Hnnng, stop, ooooh?! My breasts are tingling! Hnng, ohooo, your dick is coming in deeper?! Hnng!
I slap her big tits hard, watching them jiggle around as I gouge out her insides.
Ahhh, hnng, why?! Why must I go through such humiliation... haah, why is my pussy opening up for you!
*Smack! Smack!*
Ohooo?! H-How dare you treat me this way, human?! Haaah, it's going so deep! Hnng, it's making my body tingle, ahhh!
Each slap and thrust makes Lucifer's eyes glow with joy despite of her complaints.
What a lewd slut you are! You like being roughed up, huh!
Ooooh, hnng, y-your dick is going so deep?! S-Stop it, ohoooo?!
*Smack! Smack! Smack!*
Stop, hnnng, don't... haah, stop your dick, ohooo! Why is this making me feel pleasure!
Lucifer starts trembling fiercely, seemingly approaching climax.
I'm going to creampie you! Let's cum together! I'll fuck you even harder! Cum from my dick, slut!
*Smack! Smack! Smack!*
Hnng, oooh?! Cum?! I'd never... haaah, I'd never cum from your dick! Ugh, my boobs are tingling, hnnng!
What's happening! I-I've never felt anything like this in the eons I've lived?! I've never... ohoooo!
Her body quivers non-stop as my dick stirs up her tight insides.
Hahaha, eons you say! This must be one fucking dusty pussy then! I'm honored I get to wipe the dust off this ancient cavern of yours, haha!
And as your first ever fuck I'm going to pump my cum into your pussy! Get pregnant from my dick!
Hnng, your dick is going deeper?! I can't get pregnant with a human?! Hnng, you're so rough! It's coming to finish me off?!
Stop, I-I don't want a human's child! I don't, but... my pussy is opening up?! Why?! Stop, ohooo!
*Smack! Smack! Smack!*
Ahhn, haah, ahh, my head is going blank! Hnng, my whole body feels incredible, ohooo! Cumming, cumming! Hnng!
*Spluuurt! Spluuuurt!*
Ooooh, ohoooo, hnng, ahh, so deep, ahhh! Cumming, hnng, it's filling my pussy!
Lucifer lets out a loud shriek as a spray of clear juices erupts from her pussy.
I watch her squirm like a headless chicken while I send wave after wave of cum into her pussy.
Hnng, ahhh, I can't believe it, haah, I'm cumming?! Stop your dick, ohooo! Ahh, it's coming inside... ahhh?!
*Spluurt!*
What's happening, hnnng, I can't stop, the pleasure is dominating my pussy?! Ohooo, I can't resist your dick, hnng!
Hnng, it's still coming, ohooo! I don't want to get pregnant with a human! I-I don't, but...!
Lucifer's pussy convulses fiercely around my dick, sucking every last drop of semen out of my shaft until I'm dry.
Haah... ahh, haah... it finally stopped... ahhh, it's finally over...
Of course, there's no way I'd be satisfied only fucking this incredible pussy once.
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Hnng, ohoooo?! Hnng, y-you bastard, what... ahhh, why aren't you stopping, hnnng!
I start rocking my hips again, and pleasure once more starts surging through my crotch.
Of course I'm not stopping, we're not done yet! My dick isn't even close to giving up!
What?! You bastard, stop it! Hnnng, why is it still so hard, ohoo?! Ahhn, stop, haaaah?!
Hnnng, the stench of a human is filling my insides?! Hnnng, it's clinging to my pussy, haaah, stop, ohoooo!
If you want me to stop you can just give up you know? You want to surrender to a mere human, oh mighty Lucifer?~
Hnnnng, surrender?! I'd never surrender to a mere human, hnnng! A-A human dick won't beat me, ohoooo!
I enjoy watching Lucifer squirm around in desperation as I keep fucking her hard.
I'll go even harder for round two! We got even more lube now, after all!
Hnnng, stop, ohooo?! Stop your dick, ahhh?! I said stop, ohooo, ooooh!
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
...
I spend several hours having my way with Lucifer, her desperate cries and the sound of our bodies colliding filling the room.
Phew, I think this will be the last load for the day! Good for you, huh!
I give her another slap as I start thrusting faster, chasing one last orgasm.
*Smack! Smack! Smack!*
Hnng, ooh, cumming, haah! The final... load, ahh, I want it! I want it inside me, ohooo! Right there!
Lucifer cries out in joy as I slap her tits hard, and she starts shaking her own hips along with my thrusting.
Hnng, haah, it's coming! My womb is dropping down, haah! I'm going to cum again, ohooo!
Haah, my pussy won't stop cumming, ohooo! I want semen! I want it, ooh, hnng♪
After being crempied for the nth time, Lucifer finally just gave up resisting and started moving with me.
You sure took to liking sex fast! Good, keep moving like that if you want more cum!
*Smack! Smack! Smack!*
Hnng, I want it, I do~ My pussy wants more~ I can't stop, ohooo! Please, more semen! My hips are going numb, hnng!
I will give it to you if you surrender! Admit you lost! If you do I'll creampie you again!
*Smack!*
I admit it, I lost! I surrender! I want your semen, oooh! Please! I want to feel your human cum fill me up! Oooh♪
There isn't even a hint of hesitation on her face as she gives up.
Hahaha, that's it! That means you belong to me from now on! I'll make you into a cock sleeve for life! Here's some semen for you!
Ahhh, a cock sleeve♪ I-I've become a human's familiar~ Please, master, fill up my pussy with semen to celebrate!
Haah, ohooo, fill up my pussy with your hot cum, hurry~ Shoot it out deep inside me!
Lucifer's pussy squirms desperately around my dick, begging for my semen.
You're one lucky hag! You get to drink a young human's semen with your ancient pussy! I'm going to cum, hag! Get pregnant!
Hnng, I will! Impregnate my pussy, Master, ooh! Hnng, go ahead, fill up my ancient womb with your hot semen!
Haah, what an honor! Fuck my pussy to pieces, hnng~ I'm opening up for you!
Ooooh, cumming, cumming! Your dick is the best♪ Fill up my cock sleeve pussy with semen! Right there! I'm cumming!
*Spluuurt! Spluuuurt!*
Haah, ahhg, hnng, ooooh, ohooo! My whole body is cumming!
Lucifer climaxes hard as my semen starts invading her pussy once more.
It's so hot~ It's scalding! Amazing, haah, ahhh, my womb is going to burst! Ohooo, I can't stop cumming!
Haah, ahhg, hnng, this is, ohooo, ahhh, amazing! Master, your semen is so good! It keeps coming!
She starts calling me master on her own accord, and cums hard while the contract starts taking place.
I won. In other words, Lucifer's soul belongs to me now.
Haaah, I'm oooh, your cock sleeve now♪ Haah, I'll always... always serve your dick!
Hahaha, I-I can't believe it... I won!
The tension drains from my body, and suddenly another urge wells up within me.
Hnng?! Haah, master, your dick is expanding inside me?! Something is coming?!
*Tinkle, tinkle!*
Hnnnng, you're peeing inside my pussy?! Haah, ohoooo!
Phew, ahh, that feels good~
I was thinking this might be going a bit far for a second, but Lucifer clearly loves it, so I just keep going.
I'm being peed in♪ Haah, ahhh, what a fitting gift for someone like me, Master♪
Hnng, I-I swear... ohooo, I swear on this pee that I'm yours forever, Master, hnng!
It seems like being peed in made her cum once again, as her voice grows shrill.
In return, haah, please use me lots more as your cock sleeve! Haah, ahhh, I'll do anything you want♪
The anger has drained completely from her voice, and her pussy happily strokes my shaft even after I go limp inside her.
I pull my dick out of her, put my pants back on and look down at her with a grin.
Well, now that you're mine you better give me a good apology for threatening to kill me!
Once my arousal fades, it's replaced by anger. I can't forgive this bitch for trying to kill me earlier.
What?! You don't want my dick after all?! If you do, you better apologize, now! Get on your knees, you good-for-nothing angel!
Lucifer does what I tell her, kneeling before me.
M-Master, I'm terribly sorry. Your pee felt so good, I needed a second to compose myself. How's this?
She looks up at me with eyes pleading for forgiveness.
Seeing such a stunning, and not to mention powerful woman kneeling before me so earnestly gets me really excited.
I'm terribly sorry for threathening your life, Master. Despite of my old age, I seem to lack the intelligence to recognize my true master on my own.
Please forgive my stupidity, and give me another chance, Master!
She does apologize, but her tone still isn't quite that of a slave monster addressing its master.
Phew... you know how to kneel at least, I'll give you that, but you still sound like a selfish bitch! If you're really sorry then at least do your job and clean this up!
I stick out my dick in front of her face and force it into her mouth.
Mhhhg?! Slllrp, I will, slllrp, mmwah, I'll clean your dick, slllrp~
She jumps in shock as my dick suddenly violates her mouth, but she quickly starts licking the tip in joy.
Unlike the intense blowjob from before, she now focuses mainly on licking the tip with her tongue.
Mhhhg, I'm the leader of Hell, yet, mmmhg, I'm being used as a tissue to clean your dick~ What a wonderful job for me, slllrp♪
Now that she's under my control I don't fear her even slightly and see her as less intimidating than a slime.
Instead I just feel an urge to dominate her further, knowing she won't be able to resist anything I tell her.
Hahaha, you might be the Queen of Hell, but don't forget your most important title! You're an ancient, cock-starved hag!
Keep licking my dick! You love the taste, don't you?!
Mhhg, it truly is, ahhh, incredibly delicious~ Slllrp, haah, I never felt joy even close to this when I was an angel♪
Sllrp, mmwah, I can't stop licking, sllrp, mmmhg~ Master, I love your dick, sllrp!
Phew, okay, it's clean, you can stop now.
Slllrp, mmmhg, ahh, the taste and smell are filling my head... slllrp!
I told you to stop! Stop getting off by yourself, you're doing this to apologize, remember?!
I pull her head away and push her face down on the ground.
Master, I'm terribly sorry... hnng, haah... the taste was so divine, I couldn't help myself... haah, ahh...
Earlier she was talking about humans like mere ants, yet here she is drunk on the taste of a human cock.
I-I'm terribly sorry if I angered you, Master! Please, accept my deepest apology... hnng!
Lucifer shakes her ass from side to side.
Phew... so this is the true face of the feared ruler of Hell, huh!
I had no idea you were just a perverted masochist who'd roll over after being fucked a bit by a human dick!
Hnng, haah, ahh, I-I didn't know either! But you were kind enough to teach me my true place, Master♪
You've taught me that I'm just a slutty masochist, haah, who lives to serve your dick!
So please, accept my apology, Master! Hnng, haah♪
Don't think I'm not noticing you getting horny from apologizing like this, slut! What, you want this thing that badly?!
I take a step forward and slap Lucifer in the face with my hard dick.
Hnnng?! Y-Your dick just hit my head... w-what humiliation~ Hnng, ahhh!
A shiver runs through her body as my dick hits her head, and her breathing grows ragged.
Stop getting horny and answer! Do you love my dick?
*Smack! Smack!*
Hnng, t-twice! Ahhh, y-yes I do, Master! I-I love your dick!
Haah, just being slapped by it is making my body so hot, haah... you already fucked me so much, yet... hnng!
A wet sound resounds in the room each time she rubs her thighs together.
Don't be greedy! You're just a useless slut who lost to a human dick! Know your place!
I do! I'm a useless slut! Hnng, I'm a slut fit for the humiliation of being slapped over and over by your dick!
She puts herself down without hesitation.
I'm your dick's slave! I belong to you and your dick! All of me!
She starts rubbing her thighs together, as if she's still not satisfied after being fucked over and over earlier.
What a hopeless slut you are... you're making my dick all hard again! Fine, you're already wet, so I'll make you cum again!
Ohooo, it wasn't on purpose, haah?! Master, are you... getting behind me to bless me with your dick again?!
Lucifer's pussy is already soaked with new juices, and I pierce her from behind once more.
*Squelch!*
Hnnng, your... haah, your d-dick is inside me again, oooh!
Loud squelching noises fill the room, followed by Lucifer's shrill moans as my dick stirs up her pussy.
Her head is still pressed against the ground as she's still kneeling, and she sticks out her ass as hard as she can to give me better access to her pussy.
That's it, that's how you do your job, you cock sleeve! Let me hear you moan like the slut you are!
I ram her from behind, my body smacking against her soft ass.
Of course, ohooo! I'll let out as many perverted moans as possible, haah, fitting for the cock sleeve that rules Hell, ohooo♪
Hnng, I'm the most perverted, haah, and vulgar woman in the world, Master!
Lucifer happily shakes her ass at me while she howls in joy. The prideful Demon Queen from earlier is no longer anywhere to be seen.
I will, so please, more dick! Ohooo, use your incredible dick and, hnng, fill me up, haaah!
Stir up my ancient hag pussy, hnng, and teach it who's boss, Master!
I'm able to control Lucifer with my dick even easier than I control my slimes with my mind, which fills me with arousal.
Please, grant me more of the divine pleasure this dick provides! Hnng, show this hag her life up until now without this dick has been a waste!
Both parties are meant to move during sex! So squeeze this hag pussy for me! It's too loose!
I give Lucifer's bare ass a solid slap.
*Smack! Smack!*
Hnnng, haaah! Hnng, ohooo, ooooh, I will! I'll squeeze your dick, hnng, oooh!
The impact makes Lucifer jump, her soft ass jiggling for a few seconds after.
Ooooh, h-how's this, master? Ohooo, I'll squeeze your dick... ahh, doing so makes it feel even better!
You're not doing it to make yourself feel better! You're so useless! Use your pussy to please me, hag!
*Smack! Smack! Smack!*
Ohoooo, g-got it! Hnng, my pussy belongs to you, Master! Hnng, please go deeper, oooh♪
Ahh, your dick keeps pulling on my pussy lips~ Ahhg, what a wonderful feeling~ I'm going to cum!
As she approaches climax, Lucifer's pussy tightens up, pulling my dick further inside.
Looks like you finally remembered what your job is! Good, I can cum like this! You want me to knock you up, don't you?!
*Smack! Smack!*
Ahhn, yes, I, ohooo, I do♪ Just thinking about having your baby is making my womb quiver!
Hnng, ohooo, I'll get pregnant! Hnng, so please, fill up my desperate hag womb with your semen!
Ahh, it's getting so tight, it's like my dick is being torn off! Fine, if you want it that bad, I'll give it to you!
The urge to ejaculate quickly wells up in my crotch, and I slap Lucifer's ass again and again to endure the pleasure.
*Smack! Smack! Smack!*
Hnnng, my womb is opening for your dick♪ Master, please show my neglected hag womb some love!
Ohooo, that's it, right there! Ohooo, cover the inside of my womb in your hot juices, haaah!
*Spluurt! Spluuuurt! Psssh!*
Ahhhg, it's coming! I'm cumming, ohooo! Amazing, haah, cumming, cumming! Your semen is making me cum!
A spray of juices shoots out from Lucifer's pussy as my semen starts filling her up.
She lets out a loud shriek, and her pussy starts fiercely clamping down around my dick.
Hnng, I'll get pregnant♪ I'll get pregnant from your dick juices, Master, hnng!
Haah, ahhh, your juices are inside me! Hnng, I already got so much before, yet my pussy was still thirsty, so thank you!
Lucifer twitches over and over in joy, moaning non-stop.
Ohooo... oooh, ahhh, my womb is full... hnng, haah, I'm cumming again, ohoo!
Ahh, haah, ahhg! Haah, ohooo, ahh...
Lucifer goes limp, her face smacking against the ground as if her horns are waying her down. Looking down at her with a smirk, I pull out.
Oooh, ahh, ohooo... it's over... ahh, it's over... hnng...
Phew, what a useless hole. You didn't even learn how to stroke a dick right in all those years you've lived? You better learn quick from now on!
Lucifer trembles non-stop on the floor, with semen trickling out from her pussy.
Hnng, o-of course... haah, I-I'll work hard to be a fitting hole for you... so you can use me lots...
Haah, ahhh, what bliss... ohooo, to think an ancient pussy like mine gets to be used by such a wonderful and young dick♪
I guess being so strong and mighty, she never had any admirers come by out of fear.
Of course I'm using you, you're my slave monster after all.
Haah, that's right, ahhn♪ I'm your cock sleeve... haah, I'm so happy my pussy finally gets satisfied♪
Oh, and your tail and those wings look cool, so keep them hidden from now on! I don't want an old hag like you taking the spotlight over her master!
I've read that demons and other monsters are very proud of their wings and tails, as it's proof they are superior to humans.
Which means, taking them away from Lucifer should be especially humiliating to her.
Of course, Master! I wouldn't dare show any traits that might block your wonderfully large dick! Ohooo, oooh!
Hahaha, I see! Your mind has completely broken because of my dick, huh! Good! I'll keep fucking you until you break!
I clench my teeth to hold back the excitement as it really dawns on me that I've actually tamed one of the most powerful beings in existence.
I take the better part of a week learning everything there is to know about Lucifer's powers.
Okay, I'm going back to the surface. Once I'm up there I'll summon you to make our contract official.
To actually complete the contract with a monster, the summoner has to summon the monster one time and make them agree to the terms again to finalize it.
I'll prepare a fitting ritual for a slut like you. You better respond when I summon you, got it?
Yes, I can't wait! Well then, let me return you to the surface with my magic!
As soon as I return to the surface, I'm greeted by bellowing roars and screams.
Eeeek! There's monsters in the city!
What's going on? What's all this ruckus for?
I look over to the source of the screams and see a group of monsters rushing into the city.
Raaaargh!
Ahhhh?! S-Someone, save me!
The large pack of monsters would probably have scared me before, but now that I control Lucifer, I'm not even slightly worried.
While I think about whether I should help or not, the hero and his party shows up.
Hahaha, sorry I'm late! Don't worry, we will protect this city! Prepare yourselves, monsters!
Ahh, the hero is here! We're all safe now!
Haha, you sure are cutie! Leave this to me! All right guys, let's do this! Buff me with your magic!
Okay, go get them! I'll back you up!
The hero draws his sword and charges towards the monsters as his party members focus their magic into him.
His blade starts glowing from the extra power being funneled into him, as he starts charging his most powerful attack.
Ah, he's doing that thing. What a waste of magic. Well, who cares, I'm not involved with those guys anymore.
Now that I'm not in their party anymore I don't have to worry about him taking any of my magic for that stupid attack.
I feel pretty annoyed even just seeing those guys, but decide to watch regardless. As I do, I notice something strange.
Hey, I-I need more magic! This isn't enough guys! Shit, the monsters are attacking! Take this, Brave Slaaaaash!
*Clang!*
The hell was that? Looks like the hero has grown weak! Everyone, kill him!
Raaaargh!
W-What happened! His attack didn't work at all!
B-Brave slash! Slash! S-Slaaash!
*Clang! Cling! Clang!*
Raaaargh!
Eeeek! S-Stay away! G-Guys, I need more power! I can't kill them like this!
I-I'm sorry, but... I'm beat... ahhg...
What's going on? Why do these guys get paid so much, they're not even killing any of the monsters! Is this the real hero?
J-Just go kill them already, hero! That's what you're here for, isn't it?!
H-Hey, stop pushing! Stop, eeeek! Get them away from me! Move!
Huh?! H-He's running?! The hero is running!
Hahaha, the human hero has fled! Go kill them all!
W-We're doomed! Ahh, run!
I let out a sigh and walk out in front of the monsters.
Phew, he ran away. How pathetic.
Huh?! How dare you get in our way, filthy human!
Now that I have full control over Lucifer's absurdly strong magic, I'm not at all scared of these guys.
Oh, no one. Don't worry about it. I'm just the guy here to kill you all.
I reach out my hand and start uttering the incantation for the summoning spell.
Accept this calling and manifest thyself before me! Thou which fell from the heavens and rule the hells, Lucifer! Accept my contract!
A large chunk of my power is sucked from my body, pooling in a circle of light between me and the monsters.
What?! Lucifer?! W-Why do you speak of our lord?! Where did you get this immense power?!
The monsters all take a step back in confusion as the circle of light vanishes.
I have answered your call, my Master♪ Ahh, your power is incredible Master! You summoned me all by yourself! Hehehe, now, do the ritual♪
As the light vanishes, Lucifer appears in the space where it once was, striking a lewd pose.
Ahh, look, master! What do you think of this perverted hag's slutty pose♪
She spreads her legs wide, showing off her bare tits and pussy.
Ohooo, the wind tickles~ Just posing like this is getting my pussy all hot, ohooo, oooh♪
Haha, it's lewd, and looks ridiculous, so it suits you well. But don't you have more pressing matters to deal with?
The monsters all bow their heads upon seeing Lucifer appear.
Our lord has appeared before us! Hurry, let us take these humans' souls as tribute to our great master!
Lucifer glances over at the monsters, but quickly looks back at me, not even seeming remotely interested.
Oh don't worry about them♪ Mere bugs like that mean nothing to me! All that matters to me is pleasing you, Master!
Go ahead Master, complete the ritual and make me into your permanent cock sleeve!
W-What's going on?! T-That human has driven Lucifer mad! Kill him!
The moment the monster finishes his sentence, the air around us grows freezing cold.
You dare threaten my master, you useless piece of filth?!
Lucifer shouts at the monster in hatred, still keeping her perverted pose.
Die! Apologize for your insolence by paying with your life! That's all you're good for! Now go suffer in the pits of Hell for all eternity!
Ahhg, s-stop, please, m-mercy! I-I'm one of your followers! I-I've given myself to strengthen your caus—arrrgh?!
The monster tries pleading for its life, but Lucifer quickly shuts it up.
Silence! Garbage like you are not permitted to speak in the presence of my master!
Are you sure you want to kill them? Aren't these guys your comrades or something?
Hmph, they merely worship me of their own accord. They are no comrades of mine.
Any creature that fails to see your glory deserves death, Master. This should teach them not to ever cross you again♪
Hahaha, all right! Now you're acting more like a monster slave should! Here's your reward!
I take out a collar and attach it around Lucifer's neck.
Ahhn, a-a collar~ Ahh, I'm being treated like a mere beast! But knowing you're the one doing it makes me so happy♪
Lucifer looks down at her collar in excitement.
Hey, we're just getting started here, yet you're already stinking up the place with your pussy juices! You're going to start rumors about my monsters being sluts!
Ahhhn, haah, but I swear that the only one I'll ever be this slutty for is you, Master!
Haah, so please, Master, bring your wonderful dick to my soaking wet pussy and give it a test run!
She starts squirming around in joy from having the collar attached, and the remaining monsters all simply stare at her in awe.
Hahaha, once we're done with this ritual your hag pussy is going to be drowning in juices I bet!
Hnng, Master, just hearing that is making me so excited, I'll go crazy... hurry, please~
Slow down, I'm not done preparing you yet. This is next.
I use a spell to create items or marks to prove a contracted monster belongs to you, and create a set of nipple piercings, attaching them to Lucifer's nipples.
Hnnng! Ahhh, haaah, i-it's tingling! Ahhh, I-I can feel the joy spreading through my breasts♪
Lucifer squirms and moans in joy as I pierce her already hard nipples.
The breeze is tickling my nipples, ahhn, haah, what a wonderful feeling! Ahhn♪
The monsters watching simply start trembling, probably both terrified and confused.
Haha, you're moaning is so fucking perverted it's creeping out your followers!
Who cares♪ They must watch as I become enslaved to someone for the first time in history~ Please Master, continue♪
Phew, a ritual like this is usually considered pure and sacred, but you're making it all perverted and obscene you slut!
Ahhn, I'm sorry, Master♪ Haah, i-it's finally time for my m-most sensitive part to be marked... hnng♪
I create another piercing and bring it towards her clitoris.
Hnnng, ahhh, ohoooo, ooooh, ohoooo! Master, ahhg, this is... this is...!
The piercing is instantly soaked in her pussy juices, sparkling in the light.
Hnng, it feels even more intense than I expected~ Haah, hnng, ahh, haah♪
Hey, you're the Queen of Hell, and you can't even take having your clit pierced?!
I taunt Lucifer, then flick her fresh clit piercing.
Hnng, ohooo, M-Master, hnng, haah, my hips are going numb~ I can't keep my pose!
Hnng, Master, h-hurry, finish the contract before I stop being able to pose for you!
It's amusing watching her try so desperately to stay up straight, so I give her piercing another flick.
Then let me hear you say that you belong to me! Shout it, so even these dumb monsters can hear!
Oooooh, of course! I swear, to belong to you! I'm your dick's cock sleeve and will be forever!
As she accepts the contract, faint traces of writing appear in the air in front of Lucifer before being sucked into her body through her pussy.
Look at this mark! This is proof that I am and forever will be my master's cock sleeve♪
A crest starts forming above her crotch, and she proudly shows it off to the monsters watching.
As she does, I can feel the contract being completed.
Whoa, haha! Now you seriously belong to me forever!
Yes~ I can feel it too! Ahhn, what an incredible honor! There's no greater joy than this!
No way... Lucifer bowed down to... a mere human...?
The monsters all stare at Lucifer in disbelief.
Hnng, listen up little shits! I've become my master's cock sleeve now! This calls for celebration!
Haaah, Master, I'm truly yours now, hnng, haah! I'll, ahh, be able to taste your wonderful dick for all eternity, ahhh♪
Hahaha, you must have been one desperate hag for you to give up everything just for some cock!
Hnng, your dick is just that incredible~ Haah, ahh, anyone who can't realize that is but a fool!
You think my dick is that amazing, huh?
I stick out my dick towards Lucifer, who instantly begins to tremble in excitement.
Yes, I do, absolutely! I'll even conquer the entire world for you if it means I get to be fucked by your dick!
Hahaha, is that so! Well then, let me check if your pussy is worthy of my dick!
Hnng, of course, go ahead! Test my pussy as much as you'd like! Put the dick that took my virginity back inside me, ahhn, it's touching me!
Lucifer happily spreads her legs, and my dick easily slips into her pussy.
*Squelch!*
Ahhhn, haaah, your dick is inside me! Th-Thank you so much, hnng, my pussy is cumming!
The moment I put my dick inside her, Lucifer seems to have a small orgasm.
Haah, ahhg, th-the piercings have, haah, made it even more sensitive... hnng, ahh...
Who cares, if you want to be my cock sleeve then you need to be able to do your job and work for it!
Hnng, o-of course, I'll move! I'll move for you, ohooo! Ahh, haah, ahh, m-my hips are numb, it's hard to move, ohooo~
Lucifer starts awkardly moving her hips, clearly not very used to this.
It honestly looks like an amateur trying to dance for the first time.
What's that! I can barely feel it! Squeeze me tighter, then move, you useless slut!
Okay, I'll squeeze, hnng, then move, ohooo~ Just moving a little feels so good, hnng!
Lucifer eventually starts getting a little more control of her movements, shaking her hips like a bitch in heat.
Ooh, ohooo, so fast~ Your dick is t-too fast, ahhn, my pussy is going to break, ahhn, haah!
Ahh, I can't keep up♪ My ancient hag pussy is no match for this dick, even with all of my power!
Oooh, please Master, if you're okay with my hag pussy, stir it up any way you'd like! Hnng, ahh, that's it, haaah!
You want me to knock up this useless pussy, don't you?! I'll teach you how to fuck, so you better learn fast!
Hnng, yes, I will! Ohooo, I'll learn and get pregnant, haaah! I want your dick to impregnate me!
As soon as I bring up pregnancy, Lucifer's pussy clenches my dick tightly.
Ahhh, th-that's right, this is the only dick worthy of impregnating me! Hnng, please, haah, fill up my womb!
Her pussy desperately starts squeezing my dick tightly, trying to wring out my semen.
Hahaha, you're too desperate, hag! All right, let's see if you can get knocked up then! I'm going to cum!
Hnnng, ahh, please cum inside my useless pussy! I-I'll definitely get pregnant, haah!
I'll guide you all the way to my womb, haah, so please, hnng, fill it up with your dick juices!
Ahh, I'm losing it! My pussy feels so good, I'll lose it! All hail this dick! Hnng, it's coming! Cum all the way inside!
*Spluurt! Spluuuurt! Psssh!*
Hnnng, ohooo! Ah, haah, cumming, hnng, ahh, ohooo! Your semen is coming, hnng, ohooo!
Lucifer cums hard in her perverted pose, purposely showing off to everyone watching.
Hahaha, that's right, you better drink it all! I'll keep filling you up until I'm satisfied, after all!
It feels like my brain turns to mush from the pleasure and excitement, as I ejaculate inside Lucifer after permanently making her my slave monster.
Ohoooo, you're making my womb even happier, hnng, ahh, I can't stop cumming, haah!
Haaah, this pleasure is what I gave up everything for! Ohooo, impregnate my womb with your dick! More!
Each wave of semen that enters her pussy makes Lucifer tremble furiously.
Hnng, ahh, there's so much inside me, haaah! My useless pussy is going numb, ahh!
Haah, ahhh... ahh, haah, cumming! Oooh, ohooo!
She climaxes once more, before going limp.
Ah, haah, ahh... M-Master... hnng, ahh, haah, my pussy feels... too good... hnng♪
Lucifer lets out pleased moans as her pussy twitches around my shaft.
Phew, you're making me do all the work here! What a useless hag pussy!
Ahhn, haah, ahh, I'll train my hag pussy and m-make it tighter... ohooo, I'll make it usable, I promise!
Ahh, hnng, s-so please keep teaching me with your dick so I can, hnng, haah♪
I can feel that she's being totally honest through our connection made by the contract.
Hahaha, I can feel your desperation through the crest you hag!
Ahhh, of course, now that I'm yours you can feel and control my emotions completely♪
Really? I can control them? Well then, let's celebrate this occasion with a water show then!
Hnng?! Water show?! Ahh, Master, w-wait...
You're not saying you'll resist, are you?!
I pull my dick out of her pussy and stomp on her face as I mentally send a command through her crest.
*Tinkle, tinkle!*
Oooh, ohooo! It's coming, ahhh, it's leaking! Ohooo, I'm wetting myself like a child, hnng, ahh!
The moment I do, a fountain of urine erupts from Lucifer's pussy.
Hnng, I even get to feel your boot on my face! What incredible humiliation, haah! I-I'm so happy, I can't stop peeing!
*Tinkle, tinkle!*
Looks like it works! Keep it coming, sex toy!
Hnng, ahh, o-okay, ahhn! A-Anything to please you, Master, ahhn, it's coming!
The crest on her stomach lights up again, and even more urine shoots out from her pussy.
Ahh... ahh, I can't believe it... Lucifer is taking orders from that human... r-retreat! Everyone, retreat!
Hnng? Ahh, I can feel your negative emotions for my master, you foolish creatures! Take one step closer and I'll have your head!
The monsters all start darting off as Lucifer sends them a glance of pure hatred.
Hey, you're scaring off our audience! You're putting on a show for them here! Keep the piss coming, hag!
Hnng, ahh, thank you so much for stomping on my face! I-I'll pee lots more, ohooo!
*Tinkle, tinkle!*
As the sound of Lucifer's pee finally dies down, silence fills the streets.
Hearing the commotion finally come to a stop, the townspeople who were hiding start peeking out and come running over.
Thank you so much for fighting off the monsters for us, oh great hero!
You fought them all off on your own? What power! We have a new, mighty hero in our town!
A wave of cheers breaks out through the town, praising me as a hero that saved their city.
Hey, I'm no hero, haha! I didn't do anything myself, after all~
Lucifer takes a step forward in front of me.
Don't be so humble, Master. You are the one who summoned me; therefore, all of my strength and feats are your own.
The way her outfit now exposes her pierced tits and clit makes excitement well up inside me just looking at her.
So, you, humans! Is that the best you can do? Let me hear more praise for my incredible master!
Hey, don't be so vain! We'll be no better than that previous asshole of a hero at that rate.
As I mention the hero, the townsfolk all look around and start shouting in anger.
That's right, he took all that money from us, then he just fled at the first sight of danger!
Yeah! He's been eating and drinking at my shop for free, yet he didn't even try to defend us!
Hearing everyone complain about the asshole who kicked me out of his party puts a big smile on my face.
That's right! I have a bone to pick with that guy too! Don't worry everyone, I'll go punish him! Let's go, Lucifer!
Very well! I will transport us to the ‘hero' that ran away earlier, then! Take us there, magic of mine!
With that, Lucifer and I vanish from town, teleporting to the hero.
Haah, haah... shit! Why did I have to flee?! Why couldn't I get enough magic for my sword?! Huh? What's that?!
I hear a familiar voice, and as I open my eyes I've been moved from the town into some kind of forest.
Huh?! A forest? Ah, there you are!
I look around in confusion for a second, before spotting the hero standing right in front of us.
Why are you here?! Where did you come from! And who is that hot chick?! Well, whatever, this is perfect! You're a perfect meat shield to buy me time to escape!
He doesn't even try to hide how much of an ass he is at this point.
Hahaha, you're a real shit you know? Don't worry, I dealt with the monsters already.
As if, I can still sense... wait, they're actually gone?!
N-No way?! How could a useless idiot who only summons slimes fight off that many... wait... huh?! Where did this immense power come from?!
I can literally feel the hatred and anger filling the area as Lucifer glares at the hero.
You... you're not talking like that to my master by any chance, are you? Do you want to die that badly?
Eek?! Master?! This loser?! N-No way, how did a loser like you—
Hahaha! It seems like when I get angry enough, I start laughing! Not only do you insult my master once, but you do it again after being warned?!
What looks like crackling lightning starts building up in Lucifer's hand.
Ahhg, eek, s-stop! S-Shit, the king didn't mention any of this crap!
Huh? The king? Lucifer, wait! Let him talk!
Hm? Very well, I shall wait, Master.
F-Fine, I'll talk, I'll talk! Just keep her away from me!
Terrified, the hero starts talking about the king's corrupt plans.
So you're saying the king has been taking unreasonably high taxes from people on the pretense of needing it for arms against monsters?
Yes, but he's just been hoarding most of it himself, and paying me to keep quiet! H-Hey, I can go now, right?
Phew, even the king's a complete ass, huh. Well, I can deal with him later. Lucifer!
Leave it to me.
Well then, time for your punishment for calling my master ‘a loser.' Let me make you the biggest loser by making you lose your life!
Lucifer stares at the hero in anger, bringing the crackling lighting in her hand closer to him.
Eeek! I-I'm a loser! I'm the biggest loser in the world! Eeek, please don't kill me!
Hmm, looks like you're a fast learner at least. But you still need to be punished!
Lightning shoots out from Lucifer's palm, slamming against the hero.
Argh?! Ahh, eek, ahhhh?! Ouch, ooow!
With a bunch of nonsensical screams he flees into the forest, piss scattering on the ground below as he runs.
Master, how was that? I felt like you didn't want me to kill him, so I just gave him a good scare.
Hehe, I'm sure he'll be trembling in fear for the rest of his pitiful days.
Hahaha, that was pretty fun. Not bad! I'll give you a reward for that!
I'm truly honored, Master. Just thinking about being rewarded by you gets my heart racing...
Haha, good, as it should! Here, put this on! It's time to eat!
I bring out a certain something and hand it to Lucifer.
Hnng?! A-Are you going to treat me like an animal again?! Hnng, ahh, haah!
Lucifer attaches the nose hook to her face, gets on all fours and stares at the bowl I've placed in front of her.
That's right! This is a fitting reward for you, don't you think? I'll let you enjoy lots of my stinky cum!
Hnnng, you'll let me eat your semen?! Hnng, just thinking about the scent is enough to drive me mad!
I can't believe I get to taste your semen with my mouth too! Please, hurry, Master!
Hahaha, you're that hungry? You're the Queen of Hell, right? You must have been eating big feasts on a daily basis, no?
Yes, but that's why I'm so hungry for semen! It's a delicacy unlike any I've ever had... I want to take my time tasting it... ahhh!
Well if you want it that bad you better do a better job with your pussy this time, hag!
*Squelch!*
Ohooo, oooh! I'll help by squeezing my trembling pussy, ooh?! Hnng, ahh, cumming!
So she says, but the moment she tightens up her pussy she starts loosening up again as she's assaulted by another orgasm.
Didn't you say you were going to help?! Now you're just getting off so much your hag juices will wash away my cum!
I violently stir up Lucifer's pussy while she climaxes.
Hnng, ahhh, o-oh great dick, please forgive my hag pussy for not being able to satisfy you, ohoo!
I-I'll, hnng, work hard to make my hag pussy into a usable hole, haah, so please, hnng!
Lucifer's inner walls constrict around my shaft, still quivering from the effects of her orgasm.
She then shakes her hips from side to side, pushing her crotch against me.
Ohooo, how's this, Master! Hnng, does it feel good when I rub my soaked pussy against your dick!
Hnng, stroking your dick is making my pussy feel so good, but this is all I can do~ so please hurry, ohooo!
Ahh, that's more like it! Keep that up! Please my dick, hag!
Driven by pleasure I simply keep churning up her pussy like a wild animal.
Hnnng, I will! I'll use everything I have to stroke your dick, hnng, ohooo! Your dick is squishing my pussy, haah!
Lucifer sticks out her ass, twitching in excitement.
Ahh, haah, h-hurry, Master! Please prepare your dick juice in my pussy so I can eat, ohooo!
I want to taste your semen, hnng, ohooo! I want to eat it, but... my pussy wants it so bad too, it won't stop trembling!
Each time I prod at Lucifer's womb, a pleasant shiver spreads from my balls all the way up my spine.
It does seem like your womb wants it! Are you giving up that easy? In that case I'll just cum inside!
Hnng, ooh?! Ahh, haah, what a-a difficult choice! Hnng, I want... it doesn't matter in what hole!
I can tell from all the pre-cum that you're about to cum, hnng! Hurry, ohooo, fill me up with your dick juice, haah!
Lucifer's soft insides coil tightly around my dick, pushing me past the point of no return.
Okay, here I go! It's time for dinner! Ahh, cumming, cumming!
Ahhh! Your semen is coming, ohooo~ Hurry, oooh, inside! N-No, wait, fill my plate!
I want your delicious dick juices warmed up by my hag pussy on my plate, ohooo! I'm cumming! Hnng, I'm going to cum, ahhh!
*Spluuurt! Spluuuurt!*
Hnng, ahh, cumming, hnng, haah, y-your semen is coming, hnng, ooh!
I pull my dick out of Lucifer mere seconds before cumming, and shove it out in front of her nose, watching as she too climaxes.
Ooooh, ahh, haah, your semen is so close to my face♪ Haah, ahhh, it's making my nose tingling... I feel it all the way up my brain!
Hnng, your manly smell is spreading through my entire being! Haah, what an incredibly lewd scent, oooh!
A warm tingling spreads through my shaft as I cum on the plate, while Lucifer desperately sniffs the air.
Haha, you sound like a pig!
Ooooh, having semen so close to my face has, hnng, definitely made me into a slutty pig! Ooh, it's filling my nose, haah, ahh!
Ahh, haah, the plate is overflowing, hnng, c-can I eat, Master?
No, I'm not done preparing your dish, you impatient hag!
*Splurt!*
Hnnng, ooooh, ahh, there's still so much! I-I can't wait... oooh, ohooo~
This is your dinner, so I need to make sure there's enough there for you. I'll add some extra sauce then~ Phew~
*Tinkle, tinkle!*
Hnng?! W-What an intense smell, haah! A-Am I getting urine sauce too?! Oooh!
Lucifer cries out like a pig as she happily sniffs the contents of the bowl.
How's this? Now you got some delicious soup to go with your semen!
Ahh, haah, ahh, yes! Hnng, your wonderful dick juices are, haah, making me feel drunk!
Haah, hnng, I can't get enough, haah, ahh, what a wonderful dish, master, haah!
Haha, I have one more present for you!
I pull out some pubes and sprinkle them over the bowl.
Hnng, ohooo, ahhn! I even get pube sprinkles?! Hnng, ahh, haah!
Lucifer starts shaking her ass impatiently, staring at the bowl in excitement.
Hnng, ahh, haah, I-I can't believe I get to eat this! M-Master, hurry, let me eat! Hnng!
Hahaha! First you need to call it what it is! This is pig feed, slutty pig!
Hnng, let me eat my pig feed please! I've never wanted to eat something this badly before! Hurry, please, hnng, ahh!
She's getting so desperate looking at the bowl of cum and piss, I almost burst out laughing.
Fine, then show me how a slutty pig eats! Set an example for the rest of the pigs in this world!
Hnnng, sllllrp, mmmhg, slllllrp! Mhhhg, hnng, sllllrp!
She starts desperately sucking up the contents of the bowl, filling the area with perverted slurping noises.
Hnng, mmhg, I've had many a feast in my life, but this is tastier than all of them, mmhg!
Hnng, it has such a rich and wonderful taste, sllrp, mmhg! Ahh, the taste is turning my mind to mush!
If you like it that much then you better start squealing, pig!
Hnng, I love it! Ahh, it's the tastiest thing I've ever eaten, oiiink, sllrp~
Hahaha, you're actually squealing like a pig?! Looks like you've learned!
Of course, I'm your loyal pig! Hnng, slllrp, I'll even, slllrp, lick the plate clean, oiink!
Lucifer desperately runs her tongue across the bowl like her life depends on it.
Mhhg, sllrp, hnng, oh no, it's running out! Ahhh, what a heavenly taste, hnng, ohooo!
*Twitch, twitch!*
Hnng, ohooo, oooh, slllrp, ahhh, haah, I can't get enough, bhhrg, oiink♪
She starts twitching as she literally licks the bowl clean, letting out a loud burp.
Ahh, haah, sllrp, the taste is so good, I came a little~ Sllrp, what incredible feed, bhhrg♪
Hahaha, you came from eating semen and piss?! You're one disgusting pig, hag!
Ahhh, that's right, oiink~ Your dick juices are the best, oiink! bhhrg♪ I'm a disgusting pig that feeds on dick juices!
Lucifer gazes up at me in euphoria, licking her lips.
Hnng, ahh, all I need to live is your semen, bhhrg!
Well in that case you need to train that pussy and mouth-pussy, hag, or else you'll starve!
Mhhhg, I will to make sure I can enjoy more of these incredible juices, oiink~ Mhhrg, hnng, oiink♪
After satisfying my pig, I head back to town to report what the hero told me about the king.
As a result, I'm praised as a savior of the country, and I'm tasked with taking down the corrupt king.
I thought breaking into a castle is meant to be hard. That felt way too easy.
As my name spreads across the country, Lucifer and I break into the king's castle to take him down.
After easily breaking into the castle, we head into the throne room where the king sits in his throne.
Make sure to decrease the defenses around that town, increase the tax, then send in the hero to clean up after the monsters attack! The usual! Hahaha!
I step out as the king casually talks about his corrupt schemes openly to his servants and shake my head.
Phew, looks like the hero really was telling the truth. Guess I have an excuse to deal with you now.
Huh?! Who are you?! Where did you come from?! Are you an assassin?!
I'll ask you this once. Are you willing to step down as king peacefully?
As if, you dumb fool! I'm prepared for you silly commoners rebelling against me! Guards, have his head!
In the flash of a second a group of armored guards storm into the room.
They are clearly the best of the best, and with these numbers even the strongest of heroes would be totally outmatched.
Wow, look at that shiny armor~ Hey, did you guys know how much of a shithead this king is?
They don't reply, of course, and simply step forward, swinging their swords at me.
Phew, well don't say I didn't give them a chance. Lucifer, take out the garbage for me please.
Hmph, I don't know what you've been drinking son, but the only garbage here is you—
Very well, Master.
With that, Lucifer snaps her fingers, and the guards all vanish in the blink of an eye.
W-What?! The guards vanished?! Where did they go?! Where's my guards?!
How was that, Master? I went ahead and sent them to the deepest pits of my domain, as punishment for getting in your way.
Lucifer kneels in front of me.
W-What?! P-Pits...?! W-Who is that woman?!
Good work~ Now, before dealing with this asshole we should spread word of his corruption to everyone in the country.
That's already been taken care of, Master. I used my magic to show the little speech he gave earlier to every person in this kingdom.
All that's left now is for you to pick a fitting way to deal with him. All of my power is at your disposal, Master.
Good work, once again. All right, I'll be your judge and executioner then. Lucifer, let's do this!
W-Wait, I-I'm the king, you can't... eeek?!
Very well, Master. I shall send this piece of filth to Hell along with his underlings. You should feel honored to even get a place in my domain, human!
Hell?! W-Wait, whaaat?!
Don't worry, you'll keep your life. You'll just be my master's slave for all eternity!
With that, the king vanishes just like his guards did before him.
Since the whole thing has been showed to the citizens through magic, cheers soon begin to erupt through the streets.
And just like that, I become the great savior of this land. Though, I didn't expect all the annoying work that comes with such a title.
Specifically having to deal with all the nobles and what not coming to seek audiences with me.
(Phew, and I also have to give my stupid sex toy a reward for her work too...)
And today another group seeking an audience walk into my throne room, only look up at me in shock.
Oh, don't worry about this guys. This slut won't be satisfied unless I use her as a chair or something, so here we are. Isn't that right, hag!
I give Lucifer a little tap on the ass and call out to her.
Ahhn, that's right, Master! Hnng, ahh♪ Ahh, hurry, p-please take a seat!
Lucifer pays no mind to the group of people gathering in the room, and simply stares up at me in anticipation.
Ahhn, p-please, hurry and sit on me! Ahhn, please, give me your wonderful reward, ahhn, haaah♪
Stop spilling your stinky pussy juices all over when we have company! Sorry guys, I'm sure you're here for important business.
O-Oh, don't worry about it! We're well aware of your power and feats!
I see. So, what? You're here to ask me to reign over your country or whatever, right?
That's right! We'd be honored if you and Lord Lucifer would become the rulers of our lands!
Ahhn, what a wonderful idea! While they might just be small patches of land compared to your greatness, master, it should be a fitting addition to your reign♪
Foolish humans! Bow your heads to my great master and give yourselves to his greatness!
Shut up, chair. Hey, you said your sense of smell is greater than a human's, right? Here, sniff on this for a bit then.
I walk over and sit down on Lucifer's face, naked, of course.
Mhhhg?! Hnnng, w-what a strong smell! Hnng, ahh, it's tearing at my nose, sllrp, mhhg!
I start rubbing my ass in her face, and feel a warm, ticklish sensation spread through my crotch as she starts licking my asshole.
Ahh, ahh, that's it, I didn't even have to tell you to start cleaning! Good work, hag!
I enjoy the sensation of her soft tongue creeping its way up my ass.
Hnng, slllrp, mmhg, v-very well, Master, sllrp, hnng, w-what an incredibly strong taste!
Hnng, ooh, th-this scent is too much, mmmhg, I'm going to cum at this rate, sllrp, mmmhg!
Ticklish pleasure spreads through my lower half as Lucifer's tongue continues wriggling around inside my ass while she climaxes.
Hnng, haah, I came, mmmhg, but the scent is still filling my nose! M-My pussy is getting so hot, ohooo!
Phew, not bad, hag! But you're being too desperate! Learn to pace yourself!
Hnng?! Mhhg, your ass is squishing my nose! Mhhg, I'll lick you deper, sllrp, mmmhg~ I feel the taste all the way down my pussy!
Did you not hear what I told you?! I'm getting too hard from this you dumb hag!
W-What an interesting hobby you have... erhem, anyways, we'd be honored if you'd become our king, oh great hero!
Oh, you're still here, right. Sorry~ Hm, but I've never ruled anything before, and frankly it sounds like a pain in the ass. Heh.
Ahhn, you simply have to stand on top of the people, sllrp, like you're sitting on my face now, sllrp~
Y-Yes, worry not! We will be there to advise you, so that you can guide our country with ease!
Simply make this slutty hag cum, and I'll take of all the annoying stuff for you, Master!
Ahhn, the smell is clinging to my tongue, I-I can't get enough! Hnng, my pussy is going to cum again, ohooo!
As Lucifer continues licking the inside of my ass, I start thinking becoming a king might not be a bad idea after all.
Phew, all right, I guess I'll do it! You better handle all the annoying shit for me though!
Sllrp, of course, mmmhg, I'll do everything from licking your ass, mmmhg, to being your impregnation bag~ I'll do anything you want♪
Ahh, well that's good to know! Well, let's make it official then!
With that we finish our business, and the nobles all leave the throne room.
Phew, now that's taken care of. Guess I'll finish this job while I'm at it too~
Mmhg, sllrp, ahh, finish? Ahh, a-are you saying I get to taste your semen!
I get up from Lucifer's face, and push my dick into her soaked pussy.
*Squelch!*
Hnnng, ahhh, dick~ Hnng, haah, ohoo, cumming! A single stroke is making me cum!
Loud squelching noises fill the room along with Lucifer's joyous cries.
My dick is already close to bursting from having my ass licked for so long, so it feels extra sensitive.
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Hnng?! Master, so rough! That feels too good, I'll go crazy, ohooo!
My dick is finally starting to feel good you masochist hag, so keep squeezing! Do your job!
Ooooh, w-wait, Master, hnng, it's hitting my womb! Haah, it's so rough~ I can't slow it down no matter how much I squeeze!
Of course! I said I'll finish, so I won't stop until I'm satisfed! Keep pleasing me until then you hear?!
I-I'm sorry for having such a weak pussy! Hnng, your mighty dick is, haah, too strong for my hag pussy! Ohooo, cumming!
Ahhh, I can't stop cumming, haah, ahh! Your dick is scattering my pussy juices all over~ I'm cumming non-stop!
A fountain of juices erupts from Lucifer's pussy as I violently rock my hips.
Ohooo, ahhh, Master, p-please cum inside, haah! Fill me up with your love♪
Ooooh, h-hurry, before I cum so much I lose my mind, haah! Fill up my hag womb with your dick juices!
Don't loosen up until I've finished, you hear?! This pussy is always too loose, hag!
*Smack! Squelch! Smack!*
Hnng?! My ass, the pain is spreading through my pussy, oooh! Ohooo, I'm cummung too much, ohooo!
A red handprint is left on Lucifer's ass from the slap, and her entire body starts quivering as she squirts all over the place.
You're too loud, hag! You came again?! You're supposed to be pleasing my dick!
*Smack! Smack! Smack!*
Hnng, ahh, my ass is so hot! Hnng, I can't stop cumming♪ Please wait, Master~
Haah, ahh, hnng, it's coming again... I'm going to squirt, ahh, hnnng!
*Psssh!*
Oooh, ahh, I can't stop! My hag pussy is cumming so much, I can't keep it tight, hnng!
Lucifer's pussy quivers fiercely around my shaft as she climaxes again and again.
Hmph, what a useless hole! Whatever, I guess I'll do all the work, so you just lie there and keep cumming!
The urge to ejaculate starts building up in my crotch as I continue rocking my hips.
*Smack! Squelch! Smack!*
Hnng, it's going so deep, Master! It's going all the way inside!
Ahhn, keep going until my pussy breaks please! Mess it up all the way to my womb!
Tingling pleasure starts spreading through my crotch as semen begins rushing up my urethra.
I'll dump my cum in your pussy like a dumpster! At least try to be somewhat useful and get pregnant! Ahh, I'm cumming!
*Smack!*
Hnnnng! Ahh, my womb is opening up while it cums non-stop! Ohooo, it's ready to be impregnated!
Ahh, the head is prodding my womb! Cumming right there will be the best chance to knock up my hag womb, hnng, haah!
*Spluuurt! Spluuuurt!*
Hnng, ohoooo! Haah, hnng, cumming, cumming! Ahh, my womb is cumming!
My mind goes blank from the pleasure as an intense orgasm washes over me.
Thank you so much for filling up my hag pussy this much, hnng, oooh! My womb is going to burst!
Ahh, ohooo, your semen is gushing around inside my womb, hnng, it's so warm! I'm being fertilized while I cum!
You're enjoying yourself way too much compared to me, you useless hag!
Just smelling your semen is making me cum! Hnng, getting it directly into my womb is too much! I can't stop!
Ohooo, haah, make it stop, oooh♪ N-Noo~ Another big one is coming, hnng, haah, ahhh!
If semen alone is making you lose it this much, I wonder what will happen if I do this!
*Tinkle, tinkle!*
Hnnng, ohoooo! It's filling me up?! Hnng, your pee is entering my womb, oooh!
Lucifer starts trembling like crazy as my pee enters her pussy.
hnng, ooh, my womb is being filled up by your pee, hnng, haah, I'm cumming!
Oooh, ohooo, ahhh, it's going so deep inside! Hnng, ohooo! Haah, oooh!
Her pussy trembles around my dick like a vibrator as she continues cumming non-stop.
Phew, well since you're no good as a sex toy I figured I'd at least use you as a toilet.
Hnng, ahhh, haah, it's going so deep~ I-It's too much! Haah, Master, s-save me, ohooo!
As my urine finally stops, I pull out and watch Lucifer tremble by herself on the floor.
*Spluurt! Spluurt!*
Ohooo, ahhn, it's flowing out... ahh, haaah, cumming, cumming... ohooo♪
Loud shrieks continue filling the room as semen and pee spills out from Lucifer's pussy, making her climax for the nth time.
Hnng, it's leaking... ahh, haah, th-thank you for using my hag pussy, ohoo~
I wonder what the nobles would have thought if they were here to watch this.
And you're supposed to help me rule a country...?
Ahhn, haah... ahh, haah... haah~
Lucifer simply lets out nonsensical moans before passing out.
Phew, don't know if I can count on this hag for that, after all. Though, as long as I can fuck the shit out of her like this, I'm happy~
Shortly after I was officially appointed the new leader of the country.
As a result, my life suddenly became filled with all kinds of luxuries that I'd never gotten to experience before.
For example, one morning I'm awoken by Lucifer's voice.
Master, are you awake? Haah, in that case please look over here and watch my good morning dance!
As I open my eyes, I'm greeted by Lucifer standing bowlegged in front of my bed.
Starting my day by watching her put on such a desperate dance show makes my morning wood throb in my pants.
Hahaha, you look perverted as ever, hag! Good, now both me and my dick are awake!
Ahh, I'm glad, Master! I'm honored I was of use to you, Master!
I look away from Lucifer's dance for a second and scan the room.
This place sure is pointlessly huge...
This used to be the bedroom of that shithead hero, though after I came to power it was torn down and rebuilt as a personal quarters for me.
It's truly a fitting room for you, Master! I'm impressed mere humans were able to build such a fitting room for you at such short notice, Master!
I'm pretty surprised too, but they were apparently excited about the idea of preparing this for me, so I can't complain.
Not only do I get all sorts of delicious feasts at the snap of my fingers, but I'm even spared from doing all sorts of annoying jobs that comes with the title.
Now that you're awake, Master, what would you like to do first? Have breakfast? Or should I take care of your dick first?
It's pretty clear which one Lucifer wants, of course, as she continues shaking her hips in a perverted dance.
Get over here, I'll start with a bath for my dick. It's all sweaty from a long night.
Leave it to me, Master, ahhn~ I'll do my best to clean all the dick cheese off your dick, mmhg!
As I get up from the bed and get ready to put my dick in Lucifer's mouth, I stop myself and think for a second.
Oh, I know, go back to the old outfit you used to wear. Let's see how much you've changed since then~
After changing her outfit, Lucifer jumps at my dick like a starving animal.
Slllrp, mmhg, hnng, slllrp, mmwah, slllrp, slllllrp!
Lewd sucking sounds fill the room as intense pleasure spreads through my shaft.
Tons of pre-cum leaks from my dick as Lucifer sucks onto it like her life depends on it.
And seeing her act so lewd and desperate in her old outfit only makes the situation more arousing.
Mmmhg, sllrp, the taste is so strong, mmhg, thank you for this wonderful breakfast, slllrp!
Ahhn, mmhg, there's so much dick cheese, sllrp, hnng! The taste is so lovely, mhhhg!
There's pubes stuck to her face, but she doesn't mind at all, as she keeps licking up the dirt from my dick in a trance.
Make sure you clean properly under the foreskin too. It's been a long night, so there's lots built up under there.
Mmmmhg, of course, I'll get it all, slllrp! There's so much filling my mouth, slllrp!
Lucifer wraps her tongue around my glans, happily licking off the dick cheese stuck there.
Mmmhg, sllrp, ahh, it's clinging to my tongue, sllrp! The scent is so strong, it might never come off, mmmhg!
Ahh, that's it, you're getting better. Keep going like that.
Mhhhhg, slllrp, I'll move my tongue quickly, slllrp, to make sure I get it all, sllrp, hnng, mmhg!
The smell is making my nose tingle, hnng, haah, I can't get enough, I want to swallow it so bad, slllrp!
She's built up quite a lot of dick cheese in her mouth by now, but I don't give her the order to swallow, of course.
Mhhg, haah, there's some here too, sllrp, mhhg~ I lick it every day, yet there's already so much built up, slllrp!
Your dick is the best, Master, slllrp! Mmmwah, slllrp, I'm so happy I get to service it, mmmhg!
She closes her mouth around my glans, her tongue lapping up all the dirt it can find across my dick.
Hnng, sllrp, that's, mmwah, all of it~ Slllrp, Master!
She's gathered all of it on the tip of her tongue and breathes heavily as she presents it to me.
Mmmhg, ahh, all of your dick cheese is on my tongue, Master, hnng, ahh♪
Good! My dick is nice and sensitive now! Guess even your hag mouth-pussy has learned a thing or two.
Ahhn, th-thank you so much for the compliment, hnng! Sllrp, c-can I swallow soon...? Hnng, sllrp, mmhg!
Ahhh, just feeling it on my tongue is making me tremble, ahhhn~ I can't stop drooling! Please, Master!
She looks up at me like a dog begging for a treat.
Well, you'll just keep whimpering if I don't let you I guess, so fine, you can swallow it. Treat it as your breakfast for today!
Hnnng, what a wonderful breakfast! Thank you so much, Master, sllrp, hnng!
Lucifer swallows loudly.
Hnng, sllrp, ahhh... it's making my whole body go numb~ Sllrp, ahh♪
Right after she swallows, Lucifer starts trembling, gazing up at me in euphoria.
Ahhn, sllrp, mmwah, hnng, ahh, the wonderful warmth is slowly going down my throat! Ahh, I can't get enough!
Here, take a look! It's all gone! Thank you so much for the delicious breakfast, sllrp~
She sticks out her tongue, which sure enough is completely clean.
Phew, well it's gotten clean now. But, this isn't enough, you know that, right? You still have work to do.
Ahhn, of course~ Now that the dick cheese has been cleaned away, I'll make sure to suck out everything that's built up in your balls too~
Lucifer takes a deep breath, then fiercely sucks onto my dick like a vacuum cleaner.
Slllllrp, mmmhg, sllllllrp! Mmmhg, mmwah, sllllrp, hnng, mmwah, sllllrp!
She sucks even harder than before, sending intense pleasure through my crotch.
Slllrp, your pre-cum is so thick, I feel like it will make me pregnant just drinking it! Sllrp, it's clinging to my throat, mmwah!
Hnng, ahh, I want more! I want to drink all your thick semen, sllrp, mmmhg!
She leans back a little bit, then starts sucking furiously on the head.
Sllllrp, mmmhg, ahh, haah, what a heavenly taste, mmhg! Both the shape and the taste are out of this world, slllrp!
Shivers rush up my spine as a warm tingling starts building up in my dick.
Sllrp, mmwah, ahhn, I'm honored I get to feel this wonderful dick in my throat, sllrp, today as well, mmwah!
Slllrp, mmwah, hnng, mmmhg, please use my mouth as a toilet for all your sticky juices, slllrp!
Ahhh, keep going, haah! It's coming! Keep that up!
Hnng, what a wonderfully strong taste! Sllrp, this dick is driving me crazy, hnng, more! Sllrp, I want it all the way down my throat, hnng!
Lucifer leans forward, guiding my dick down her throat as she moves her head back and forth.
Mhhg, the veins are throbbing, hnng! I can tell your dick is at its limit! Sllrp, hurry, mmwah, use my mouth as a toilet♪
Semen rushes up my urethra, and I quickly approach climax.
Ahh, I will! I'm going to cum, haah! Here it comes!
Slllrp, dick juice~ Sllrp, mmmhg, it's coming! Creampie my hag mouth-pussy♪ Sllrp, fill up my throat, slllrp!
Mmwah, sllrp, empty everything from your balls in my mouth, slllrp, slllllllrp!
*Spluurt! Spluurt!*
Mmmmhg, hnnng! Bhhg, slllrp, mmwah, oooh, slllrp, hnng!
Lucifer starts twitching fiercely as my semen invades her mouth.
Intense pleasure spreads through my dick as I cum, though Lucifer seems to be enjoying herself even more than me.
Sllllrp, hnng, ahhh, mmhg, sllrp! It's so thick, hnng! It's even tastier than your dick cheese♪
Hnnng, this is all I need to live! Slllrp, mmwah! Dick! Dick juice, slllrp!
She literally is able to live on nothing but semen, apparently, though I think lust is driving her more than hunger.
Hnng, sllrp, there's so much in my mouth, my cheeks are stuffed... sllrp, mwmah, hnng!
I'll help you wash that down~ Phew~
I relax with my dick still in Lucifer's mouth, and pee starts naturally trickling out of the tip.
*Tinkle, tinkle!*
Mhhhg?! Bhhg, hnng, sllrp, mmmmhg, hnng?!
She desperately starts breathing through her nose as pee stars filling her mouth.
Make sure you get all the pubes too~ And don't spill a drop, you hear?
Mhhg, sllrp, hnng, mmwah, sllrp, th-thank you so much, mmhg!
Hnng, I'll drown! Hnng, I'll drown in your pee~ What bliss, sllrp, mmmhg!
That makes you happy?! You're one weird masochist, you perverted hag!
Sllrp, hnnng, I won't spill a drop, mmmhg, sllrp!
Phew, you can drink once I'm done~ Aren't you lucky, getting your breakfast before me?
And just as my pee comes to a stop—
Hnng, mmmhg... mmwah, sllrp, ahhh, what an incredible breakfast, sllrp, hnng, haah♪
After swallowing everything in her mouth, Lucifer looks up at me with a blissful smile, breathing heavily through her nose.
Mmmhg, ahhh, thank you for making such a, slllrp, wonderful meal, Master, sllrp♪
Ahhh, it's filling my stomach, sllrp~ Just thinking about the taste is making me horny, hnng, sllllrp!
Hahaha, even the Queen of Hell knows how to say thank you, huh!
Sllrp, of course! Not saying thank you to this incredible dick would, sllrp, mmwah, be unheard of, sllrp!
Lucifer is still licking the tip of my dick, showing no signs of stopping.
It still smells, sllrp, so good... hnng, I can't stop moving my tongue, sllrp!
I start thinking about what to eat for breakfast for a bit, letting Lucifer keep licking.
Some rare fruit would be nice.
With that in mind I head to a certain sacred forest with Lucifer. Normally humans would never be allowed here, but Lucifer took care of that for me.
This forest should have lots of rare fruit to your liking, Master, but... it's quite noisy in here today.
We seem to have teleported into the middle of some kind of fight.
L-Lord Lucifer?! These monsters came out of nowhere and attacked us... kuh, begone, foul creature!
Is that the Queen of Hell?! W-Whatever, just get the fruit! Die, spirits!
A small army of monsters approach, though Lucifer doesn't even flinch.
I came here to prepare breakfast for my master, and was in such a good mood until now! Stop fighting and begone at once!
No, that's not good enough! Go out and gather up fruit for me and bring it here at once! If you don't... I'll kill you all!
Everyone in the area suddenly freeze up in fear.
Eeek! Th-The queen is angry! Everyone, retreat! Flee!
Hurry, start gathering fruit! Thank you for saving us! Consider this your land from now on, Lord Lucifer!
The spirits in the area all start darting off, gathering up fruit like Lucifer told them to.
Phew, we just showed up here to get breakfast, and they suddenly hand over the entire forest.
The spirits come over and start handing us the fruit they've gathered.
Nothing will stand in the way of me preparing your meal, Master. Here, please enjoy.
Hmm, all right, might as well give it a try. Mhhg... wow, that's delicious! How about this one! Mhhg!
The various fruit tastes better than any other I've ever had.
Though as I bring one of the smaller ones to my mouth, I quickly spit it out again as a horribly sour taste fills my mouth.
Bleergh! What the hell is this! It's too sour! I can't eat this!
I-I'm terribly sorry! I quite enjoy that one myself, as it's such a strong taste...
Lucifer starts panicking as she sees me displeased, which makes me want to shout at her more.
You gave me this on purpose, didn't you?! Way to ruin my entire morning!
Ahhh! Master, I'm so sorry for upsetting you... I'm a complete failure!
I have to concentrate to stop myself from grinning as I enjoy her reaction, shouting even louder.
You're such a useless hag! If you're really sorry then strip and get on the ground! I'll teach you how a make a proper apology!
Ahh, ahh, of course! I'll strip and show off my unsightly hag body then!
I take off my pants and show off my dick, which makes Lucifer's face light up with excitement as she starts stripping.
Hmph, looks like you need another course on how to kneel properly!
*Smack!*
Ahhhn♪ Hnng, y-yes, I'm terribly sorry for being such a forgetful hag~ I'm sorry you have to use your great dick to remind me!
I slap Lucifer's cheek with my dick, and she starts shivering in excitement.
If you're really sorry then you better learn what I like eating from now on! Try using your stupid head for something other than thinking about dick!
*Smack!*
Hnng, o-of course! I'm terribly sorry! I was so excited I got to taste your dick this morning, so I couldn't think about anything else!
Hnng, even now, haah, I'm more focused on the smell of your dick than learning from your dick slaps! Please punish me more!
You better learn fast, hag, or I'll find a new cock sleeve!
*Smack! Smack! Smack!*
Hnng, I-I will! Hnng, ahhh, I-I'm so sorry for upsetting you, ohooo, I'm sorry, ahh!
I'll teach you how to bow properly too!
I stomp on Lucifer's head.
Hnng?! Haah, ahh, th-thank you so mcuh... ahh, haah♪
She squirms around like a fish on land, breathing heavily in excitement.
Now that you've taught me, I'll- hnng, bow deeply and apologize, Master!
P-Please, forgive me Master... I shall never make this mistake again... haah, hnng!
She apologizes, though she's unable to hide the arousal in her voice.
Phew, you're such a handful you hag! I have to do all of that to teach you a simple lesson?! Do you see all the trouble I need to go through for you?!
Ahhh, please take your anger out on me by stepping harder... hnng, take it all out on me, haah, haah...
She's clearly enjoying being punished, so it hardly feels like a sincere apology.
Well if you like being punished so much then stick out your ass!
Hnng? Ahh, o-okay, Master, haah!
I pick up one of the sour fruits from before and look down at Lucifer's ass.
H-How's this, Master? Hnng, ahhn, w-what humiliation... haah...
Lucifer's asshole twitches gently as she sticks it up in the air.
What, is this embarrassing you? Even though you're always walking around with your pussy bare, you hag?!
Just that is enough to make Lucifer's pussy squirm around in arousal.
Hnng, ahh, w-well as your slave I feel that... haah, showing you such a dirty place is way too rude, hnng!
Ahh, s-so without being told to do so i-it would be too rude, haah, ahhn!
Hahaha, it's hard to believe you mean that when you're spilling pussy juices everywhere!
Hnng, w-what a humiliating order... haah, b-but... p-please look at my perverted pose, hnng!
*Twitch!*
Ohoo, ahhh, I can feel you looking into my ass~ I-I can't believe I'm being watched doing something so embarrassing!
Lucifer's ass twitches greedily while juices trickle out from her pussy.
Hnng, ahh, M-Master, isn't that enough? How long should I stay like this, hnng~
Pfft, we're just getting started, you slutty hag! Spread your ass for me!
Ahhg, w-what a humiliating order... haah, ahh, I can't believe I'm doing this!
Oooh, hnng, I'm so humiliated I'll die... my heart is racing, hnng, i-is this good, Master?
Lucifer spreads her ass open, her pussy twitching desperately below.
Hnng, oooh, ahh, how humiliating~ Ahh, I'm so embarrassed, but I can't stop moving my hips!
Stop moving you hag! I want to get a closer look!
How's this? Can you see deeper inside now, Master? Hnng, I feel your look piercing me, haah, ahh!
Hahaha, that's good! Keep it open like that and I'll give you some delicious fruit!
I jam one of the fruits into Lucifer's ass.
*Squelch!*
Hnnnng?! W-What?! S-Something's going inside... ahh, haah, d-did you... hnng?!
You better not spit it out! You said you love these, so eat it up!
Her ass clenches up as she tries to push it out on reflex, but I quickly push it back in.
Hnnng?! Oooh, i-it's going deeper?! Hnng, i-it won't fit in that deep, ahh?!
Haha, look at that, it's going in! Good, swallow it! Hahaha, you look happy~
I push the fruit deeper inside Lucifer's ass, and it gets sucked in surprisingly easily.
Hnng, ahh, p-please forgive me! No more, Master! Hnng, oooh! I-I can't believe I have fruit in my ass... hnng!
Haha, it goes deeper every time you talk! Hah, take it all!
Hnng, ahh, haah, M-Master?! Hnng?! Ahh, I can't believe this... hnng?! Something else is touching me!
Well of course! One isn't enough for breakfast, is it? Have another one!
*Squelch!*
Hnnng, ahh, haaah, it's going in... ohooo, it's being crushed?! Hnng, ahh, haah?!
Juices start trickling out from her ass as the fruit gets squished inside, though I just keep pushing in more.
Ahhg, i-if you enjoy this then, hnng, I'll endure it, Master! B-But...
I-I can't believe you're touching my ass... hnng, ahh, I-I can't take this...
What do you mean! I'm using your pussy all the time, so I can use this hole too!
I keep pushing fruit into Lucifer's ass, watching as she squirms around in both excitement and humiliation.
Hnng, ohooo, it's going so deep, ahh, each one pushes the next one deeper in, hnng!
Her reaction is a lot of fun, so I keep pushing fruit inside until I can't fit any more.
What, is that all you can take! I figured I could put in at least a few more, hag!
Fruit peeks out from Lucifer's ass, with juices trickling out from her asshole as her entire body quivers.
Hnng, ahh, M-Master, I-I'm full... i-if you put in anymore, they'll all be squashed! Oooh!
Her ass starts quivering, showing that it's clearly at its limit.
Ahhg, ahh, M-Master, I can't take any more! J-Just staying like this is taking everything I have, haah, hnng, haah!
Looks like your hag asshole isn't useless after all! Haha, I bet I can fit some more in there! Pfff~
Hnng?! Ahh, haah, no, Master! E-Even just blowing on it like that is, ooooh, going to make me lose control, hnng!
Ahh, hnng, please move, ahhh! Hnng, please move away, Master, ohooo, my ass can't hold... ahh?!
Her ass starts trembling furiously along with Lucifer's moans.
M-Master, I-I can't hold it, so please move, haah, my ass is opening up?!
Her ass finally reaches its limit, and fruit comes spilling out.
*Spluurt!*
Ohoooo, M-Master, it's coming, hnng, ahhh, it's coming out my ass!
Lucifer's sweet moans fill the forest as fruit after fruit gets ejected from her ass.
Ahhn, haah, i-it's all coming out, hnng, ahhh, my ass is tingling, hnng, oooh!
Haha, look at them go! You sound happy, hag! Did shitting out fruit feel that good?!
Hnng, n-no, Master, I simply... oooh, I simply feel sensitive from holding it in, hnng, ahhh!
Wait, ohooo, ahhh, more is coming out, Master! P-Please move, it's coming, hnng!
Good, let it all out! You know you love it, you masochist hag!
Now that you gave the order, I... don't have to, hnng, keep it in, ahh, it's coming Master!
*Spluurt! Spluurt!*
Ooooh, it's coming, ahhhh! It's shooting out my ass, haah, I'm cumming!
All the fruit stuffed in her ass start spilling out, landing on the ground below.
Hnng, ahh, look, Master! I love being watched, haah, I can't get enough!
Hahaha, it looks like you're giving birth to eggs! This is a pretty hilarious show, I like it! Keep going!
Haah, hnng, I'm birthing eggs♪ Please enjoy, ohooo, ahhh, please watch, hnng!
*Spluurt!*
Ahh, haah, watch closely, haah, as it all shoots out of my ass, oooh, i-it's coming!
Lucifer's ass trembles furiously as she howls in joy from expelling all the fruit.
Hnng, I-I'm being watched doing something so vulgar, ohooo~ My pussy is, hnng, getting so hot, Master!
I see! Well, I guess it's time to give this hole a test run!
I bring my dick over to Lucifer's quivering asshole.
Hnng, ahhg, M-Master?! Y-Your dick is in my ass! Dick!
Lucifer's cries resound through the forest as I pierce her ass.
Ahh, this is much tighter than your loose hag pussy! It's even hard to move like this!
Hnng, ahh, d-don't move, Master! I-I can't get pregnant from that hole, hnng, ahh, dick!
Oooh, y-your dick is filling my ass! What humiliation, hnng, ahh, my womb is tingling!
A masochist like you must like this more than your pussy! Loosen up a bit so I can move!
I start rocking my hips, stirring up Lucifer's ass.
Hnng, ohooo, my ass is, hnng, ahh, being spread open! Your dick is, violating my ass!
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Ahh, hnng, haah, my ass, ohooo, feels so good, hnng, my ass is being punished!
Please rushes up my dick with each stroke, and I enjoy the sound of Lucifer's desperate moans as I move.
Seemingly not sure how to react, Lucifer squirms around in both humiliation and joy.
Hnnnng, I shouldn't be f-feeling this good from my ass, but, haah, I can't help it!
My ass is being stirred up, hnng, oooh, don't look, Master! I-I'm being too obscene!
The inside of Lucifer's ass clings to my dick, and her whole body jumps with each stroke.
Ahhh, I-I'm a fallen angel, yet I've never felt such humiliation, hnng! H-How can a hole made for expulsion feel s-so good, ahhh!
Well, if you don't want it then fine, I won't cum in you then!
I do want it! My humiliation means nothing in the face of your incredible semen! Please, I want your dick juice in my perverted asshole!
The deeper inside her ass my dick goes, the deeper Lucifer bows as she begs for my semen.
Hahaha, you finally admitted it! All right, I'll cum, so make sure you drink it all with this hag asshole!
Hnng, I will, haah! I'll suck it all up with my, hnng, ass-pussy! Haaah!
Oooh, right there, ahhh! My perverted ass-pussy isn't worthy of such an incredible dick, ohooo!
Intense pleasure wills up in my dick as I start approaching climax.
Ahhh, suck it all up! I'm going to cum! I'll fill you up with so much hot semen your ass catches fire!
It's coming! Your hot semen is, haah, coming! Please fill up my perverted asshole with lots of semen!
Hnng, please satisfy my ass-pussy's hunger with your semen1 Hnng, cumming! My ass is cumming!
*Spluurt! Spluurt!*
Ooooh, hnng, I'm cumming with my ass! Cumming, oooh! My ass is, hnng, cumming, ahhhh!
As my semen starts filling up Lucifer's asshole a spray of clear juices spills onto the ground below.
Hnng, ahhh, my ass is burning up, oooh, ahhh! Oooh, hnng, I'm cumming with my dirty ass, haah, I can't stop!
Ahhh, this feels different from your ass! It's sucking me dry, phew~
Hnng, ahh, ooh, it's going in so deep, ahh! Your seed is entering my body! I'm cumming!
Ahh, my insides are being covered in semen, hnng, ahh! It feels so good, my ass is cumming again! Ohooo!
Lucifer freezes up, then goes limp as she falls onto the ground.
Ahn... haah, ahh... my ass... ahh, haah...
She trembles furiously where she lies on the ground, as if there's an earthquake.
Her ass trembles even more fiercely than the rest of her, like it's begging for more.
Ahhn, i-it's so deep inside, ohoo... y-your dick juices are inside my ass, ahhn♪
It did feel like you sucked out even more semen than your womb usually does! Did you like being ass-fucked that much?
Ahhhn, haah, yes! Thank you so much for using m-my filthy hag asshole♪
Ahh, haah, I had no idea it would feel that good, haah, having my hag asshole fucked. Your dick is the best!
Hahaha! You liked that, huh! Well, I guess I'll use this hole again if I feel like it. I'm pulling out!
Hnng?! Oooh, your dick is going out, oooh! Ahhh, it's going out?!
*Spluurt! Spluurt!*
Hnnng, ooh, it's leaking! Hnng, ahhh, your semen is leaking out, it's coming!
A torrent of semen shoots out from Lucifer's ass as she climaxes once again.
All your precious semen is leaking out! Ahhh, I can't stop, oooh! I-I'm terribly sorry, Master, ahhh, it's still coming!
*Spluurt!*
She tries to tighten up her ass, but semen just keeps spilling out.
Hahaha, don't worry, just let it all out! I'll forgive you for the disgusting fruit after this perverted show is over!
Hnng, ahh, th-thank you so much, oooh! I-In that case I'll, haah, cum even harder with my ass, oooh! It's coming!
*Spluurt!*
Ahhh, please w-watch my perverted show closely, hnng! My ass is trembling... cumming, hnnng!
Lucifer's cries continue resounding through the forest as she cums again and again.
After finishing breakfast and coming back to my quarters I decide to kill some time by watching a special dance show.
Keep dancing, slut! This isn't nearly enough to earn dick! Keep trying!
*Clap! Clap! Clap!*
Ooooh, okay, hnng, please watch my perverted pussy dance, ohooo!
Lucifer desperately shakes her hips along with my clapping, spilling pussy juices all over the floor.
Master♪ Please give me your dick! I've even learned how to take it in my ass now! Please come put your dick in me!
Ahh, you can choose any hole you like! My soaked pussy, hnng, or my freshly broken out ass-pussy! Both are ready for you♪
Both her ass and her pussy twitch greedily, begging for my dick. A part of me wants to go fuck her right away, but I also want to keep watching her beg for it.
Hmm, what should I do~
I glance around and spot some documents Lucifer was carrying earlier.
Hm? What's this? An eye-witness account of a dragon at a casino in town?
These are some of the papers the nobles brought me during their last visit.
Heh, a casino, huh. I've never actually been inside one... the hero would always make me wait outside when we went to those places.
Since they would always take most of my reward too, I would be broke while the rest of the party went on to gamble to their heart's content.
Now, for the dragon... I assume they want me to come kill it, since they sent me this report.
As I go through the documents, paying more attention to them than her, Lucifer calls out to me on the verge of tears.
Ahhn... Master, I was planning on killing that dragon for you, if it's an annoyance to you. Hnng♪
In other words, she's strong enough to handle a dragon just fine.
Hm, this seems like a fun pass-time. Lucifer, stop squealing and get ready, we're heading out! If you don't hurry you won't get any dick!
Hnng, ahh, o-okay! W-Where are we going, Master? Hnng, ahh~
You'll see.
...
It's important to bring my pal Slimey out for a walk now and then too! Hahaha, he's your superior Lucifer, so do as he wants~
I thought of a fun way of using my old pal to play with Lucifer while we head out to deal with the dragon.
What's wrong? Hurry up!
I pull on the chain attached to Lucifer's clit to make her move faster.
Ooooh, hnng, w-wait, Master, ahhhg! It-s pulling...?! Hnng, ahh, m-my clit!
Lucifer has her arms tied behind her back, with a chain attached to her clit.
She's naked, of course, with Slimey wrapped around her whole body.
Ahhhg, oooh, S-Slimy, stop rubbing... hnng, ahhh! Oooh!
I said hurry! Stop wasting my time! Come on already!
As I pull on the chain, tremors run through Lucifer and she lets out another shrill moan.
Hnng, I'm walking, I'm walking! My clit is stretching?! Haah! Slimey is rubbing my body all over, haah?!
Hnnng, Master, this is too much stimulation, hnng, ahh! Slimey, wait, please!
Hahaha, you're always asking for this stuff, so don't go complaining on me now! Slimey, give her hell!
Hnng, wait?!
*Squelch! Squelch!*
Hnnng, stop?! Oooh, not my nipples, ahhn?! Hnng, I'll cum, ohooo?!'
As Slimey starts wriggling around Lucifer's nipples, she lets out a howl and starts trembling, seemingly about to cum
Hahaha, see, she's loving this! Keep going Slimey!
Hnnng, Master, if you keep pulling, I'll, hnng... ahh, cumming! I'm cumming! Haaah, I-I want to cum, oooh?!
Just as Lucifer is about to cum, I use my power over her to command her crest to prevent her from climaxing.
Ahhh, I-I can't cum?! Hnng, oooh, my clit?! Ahh, haah, ohooo!
I grin as I watch Lucifer squirm and shriek in desperation.
I came to see what the ruckus was about, but I did not expect to see a mere human dirtying my domain.
Suddenly a giant dragon jumps down from above.
S-Slimey! Hnng, stop rubbing my nipples so much! Ohooo?! My clit is stretching... Master, please... let me cum!
Lucifer doesn't even glance at the dragon, and simply keeps squirming from the pleasure.
Hahaha, you're ignoring the dragon? This thing is apparently super dangerous, and is like, terrorizing the land and all that.
Hnng, b-but I want to cum! Haah, but I can't, hnng, ahhh, why! Ahhn, oooh!
What insolence! Die, you filthy inferior creatures!
See, now you made him mad! Go play with him! If you do, I'll give you a reward!
That was the beginning of the end for the poor dragon.
Who are you calling inferior you pathetic creature! How dare you insult my master you stupid lizard! Begone!
Lucifer turns to face the dragon, staring at it in hatred.
Dieee, raaaargh!
Silence! I won't even let you die. I'll keep you suffering for all eternity!
Come forth, Gates of Hell! Pull this foolish dragon into the Infernal Pits!
Arrgh?! W-What's going on?! I-I'm being overpowered?! How?! It's sucking me in?! Arrrrgh?!
With that, the giant dragon is sucked into the ground, vanishing from sight as the fiery gates close.
N-Now, Master...
Please let me cum! Please use your dick a-and let me cum! I beg you!
Lucifer faces me again, as if the dragon was never there in the first place.
Hnng, ohooo, S-Slimey is rubbing my nipples so much, ahhh, please hurry, hnng, ahh!
Hahaha, I don't mind, but I feel bad if Slimey doesn't get to have any fun. Hmm~
A part of me wants to fuck her right away, but on the other hand it would be fun to keep teasing her.
My clit?! Hnng, ahh, oooh! I can't cum, but the pleasure is so strong! Please, ooh, Master, hnng!
Nooo, it's coming, ahhh! A big one is coming, hnng, oooh, I want to cum! My nipples and clit feel so tingly, but I can't, ooooh!
I keep preventing Lucifer from climaxing, watching as she squirms around like a worm with its head cut off.
Hnng, ahhh, M-Master, please... ooh, please, have mercy! Let me climax!
Lucifer glances up at me with tears in her eyes, quivering fiercely.
Ahh, I can't cum, hnng! W-What a torturous experience, hnng! This is worse than hell itself, hnng! Master, please, r-reward me!
I'll do anything, hnng, oooh! I'll continue b-being your slave for all eternity! P-Please, Master! I'll go crazy! Haaah, let me cum!
Lucifer cries out in despair, squirming around in desperation.
Oooh, p-please, hnnng, let me cum! Haaah, p-please reward me, Master!
Hahaha, so you don't want me to stop? You're that desperate for pleasure, huh, hag? Fine, I'll allow it! You better be grateful!
I hold out my hard dick, moving in closer to Lucifer.
Hnng, ahh, haah, finally! Ahhh, please, make me cum, haaah! Use your dick and make me cum, haah, hurry!
I feel pretty satisfied having watched her squirm around for that long and decide to let her finish.
Fine, you can cum you masochist hag!
I release the restraints on her crest and jam my dick inside her.
*Squelch!*
Hnnng, ahhg, cumming! Haah, hnng, cumming! Ahh, it's leaking, oooh! Dick, ahh, dick! hnng!
Love juices erupt from Lucifer's pussy her body is finally allowed to climax after being stimulated for so long.
Haaah, hnng, ahh, ohooo, dick, ahhh! I-I'm cumming again! I'll die~ My pussy is going to die, oooh!
Her pussy tightens up desperately around my dick as she climaxes again and again.
Ahhhh, that's nice, hag! You're finally getting tight! Guess I'll start moving!
Hnng, ahhh, w-wait, oooh! Hnng, ahhh, I-I'm still cumming, I can't stop! I-If you move now my pussy will break!
Stop complaining, you're the one who wanted to cum so bad! Slimey, keep going until I cum!
Hnng, my nipples are burning up?! My womb, ohooo, my womb too! Haah, i-it's coming again! I'm squirting!
*Psssh!*
Hnng, ahh, I-I can't stop cumming! My heart is racing! Cumming, ooooh, nooo, I'mcumming!
Hahaha, I barely moved, and you came again? You were acting so cool and mighty in front of the dragon! What happened!
Haah, hnng, ahh, th-this dick is a million times stronger than a mere dragon! Haah, ahhg, hnng!
'Hnng, oooh, the head is stirring me up, hnng, my womb won't stop trembling! Haah, ahh!
*Squelch!*
Haaah, ooh, m-my hag pussy can't take this! Hnng, oooh, j-just feeling your dick inside is making my pussy go insane!
If just feeling it inside is making you go this crazy then I wonder what will happen when I cum! You want my semen, don't you?!
I start stirring up her pussy harder as I ask.
Ohooo, ahhh, I-I do! Haah, if you ejaculate now I'll cum so much I'll really go crazy! But I want it!
Ohooo, go ahead, make my hag pussy go crazy! Hnng, fill up my masochist pussy with lots of semen!
My balls start trembling, sending a warm tingling up my shaft.
Well if you want it that bad I guess I'll give it to you! Drink up every drop, hag!
I will! Oooh, I'm cumming non-stop, but I want more! Hnng, I want to be knocked up!
Hnnng, ahh, it's coming! My head is going blank! I'm going to cum from being impregnated, hnng, ahh, I'll go crazy! Cumming!
*Spluurt! Spluurt! Spluuuurt*
Ahhhhh, hnng, ahh, cumming! Cumming, ohoooo! Ahhh, hnng, haaah!
As my semen starts invading Lucifer's insides, a spray of love juices and urine shoots out from her pussy.
Hnng, ahh, haah! My womb is burning up, ahhh, haaah, cumming, cumming! Ohooo!
Ahhh, you're so much tighter than normal! Not bad for a hag pussy! Keep drinking it like that!
Hnnng, I-I will! My pussy's doing it on its own, oooh! I'm cumming! Ahhh, I keep cumming, but my pussy won't stop!
Ooooh, I can't stop! Hnng, your dick keeps coming, haah! I-I'm wetting myself!
*Tinkle, tinkle!*
Ahh, haah, I'm peeing and cumming! Ooooh, my pussy is going crazy, hnng, ohoo! Cumming, haaah!
After cumming for the nth time, Lucifer goes limp, pee still spilling from her pussy.
Haaah, ahh, hnng... ahh, haah... thank you... very much...
She looks completely lost in euphoria as she glances over and thanks me.
Look at you panting like a pig. You're the only one having any fun here, so yeah, you better thank me!
I'm terribly sorry! I'm soaking wet from, hnng, pussy juices and pee now, haah, so you can keep u-using me as much as you want!
Phew, yeah you are pretty wet. I wonder what will happen if I pull out!
Hnnng, oooh, your dick is going out?! Hnng, ahhh!
I can't have your pussy be this dirty, so time to clean up! And don't stop walking, hag!
*Spluuurt! Spluuurt!*
Ohooo, hnng, ooh, I'll walk! I'm walking! I'm cumming~ My clit is stretching, haah! It'll come off!
I pull on Lucifer's chain and walk forward.
That's it, walk! I'm out walking my pets to celebrate defeating that dragon!
O-Okay, I'm cumming non-stop, but I-I'll do my best to be of service to you, Master... ohooo♪
Hnng, ahh, b-but could you pull a little more gently... haah, and slow down Slimey? Haah!
Oh, you want me to do it harder? Got it! You hear that Slimey? The hag wants to cum more!
*Squelch! Squelch!*
Hnng, ohooo, cumming! I'm cumming so easily, haah! Ahhh, it's pulling, ohooo!
Lucifer continues walking forward with a rocky stride as her body convulses furiously.
After reporting the death of the dragon, my name was once again spread across the land their savior.
Being revered as a legendary hero, I'm given all sorts of perks and benifits, even outside of the land I rule over, as rumors spread across the world.
...
I decide to take a trip to the casino with Lucifer, who's dressed properly for the occasion.
Hahaha, I win again! I'm on a roll, haha!
I'm happy for you, Master! Congratulations!
Lucifer walks up next to me, clad in her bunny suit.
She's hiding her horns with magic, and her tail is replaced by a real bunny tail. She smiles brightly as she peeks up at me.
But Master, I'm disappointed by the lack of festivities in your presence. I'll put on a dance for you, ohooo!
Haha, go ahead!
You two seem to be having fun.
What seems to be the owner of the place walks over, perhaps thinking I'm hitting on one of her workers or something.
Oh don't worry, she's not one of your staff, she's my servant.
Th-That's not what I'm here for... I have an offer for you that I think you want to hear.
She grins, telling me about an apparently great way of potentially winning lots more than what I've currently got.
So you want me to put up all my winnings in a single game against you?
Yes, that's right. If you win the whole pot, which will be crazy high; I figured it would be a fun way to end the night for you.
The owner completely ignores Lucifer, who is still desperately shaking her hips in the background to get my attention.
Though despite of her frolicking, Lucifer is on point, looking straight through the owner's ruse.
(Hmph! A mere good-for-nothing, middle-class demon trying to trick my master in front of me? I won't forgive this little vixen for this!)
So, what do you think?
Hehe, well it sounds fun, but I'm tired, so I'll let my servant play for me!
I slap Lucifer on the ass.
Ohooo, hnng, l-leave it to me, Master♪ I'll enjoy myself in your place, ohoo!
Huh? Are you sure you want to leave such an important bet to this... bunny girl?
Hmph, are you deaf. He said I'll be your opponent. Now come on you inferior creature, are we doing this?'
It seems like the prospect of gambling with a bunny girl puts her off for a second, but she ends up agreeing, and the game is over within a minute.
Well then, now that you've called, let's show our hands. I win, of course. So now your casino owes us quite a sum.
Lucifer kept getting the owner to raise until finally showing her hand, winning the game.
N-No way! Ugh... did you cheat?!
Cheat? Hah! Don't lump me in with inferior demons like you! I simply sealed your powers so you couldn't.
Wait, y-you...?! I-It can't be! Y-You sealed my powers?! A-Are you...?!
So, you finally figured out who I am. Looks like pretending to be human has dulled your senses.
Lucifer's glare makes the owner finally realize who she's up against.
P-Please forgive me, Lord Lucifer! I-I had no idea you were up on the surface... especially in an outfit like this...!
You're asking the wrong person for forgiveness. Looks like you need to be taught a lesson.
Lucifer stomps on the demon's tail, pulling on her horns.
Arrrgh?! P-Please, mercy!
You're having your prided horns and tail toyed with, yet you won't resist?! What happened to your attitude from earlier?!
Eeek?! I-I wouldn't dare raise a finger against you, my Lord! Please, you can have all the winnings! Please, mercy! Arrgh?!
Haha, of course, I won, after all! Does having your tail stepped on bother you that badly?
Eeek?! P-Please, mercy! My tail and my horns are so sensitive, hnng?!
Hahaha, what cute squeals! Keep squirming, worm! Let this be a lesson to teach you your place!
Lucifer grins the same way the demon was when she first approached me.
So as her owner, I feel a strong urge to display my dominance over her and fuck her right here and now.
Lucifer, time to show this stupid demon who she's been fucking with!
I get up behind Lucifer, gripping her tail tightly as I enter her.
Ahhh?! Master, hnnng, you're holding my tail so hard, ahhh?!
*Squeeze~ Squelch!*
Hnnng, ahhh! The demon is still right there, so don't squeeze my tail so hard, haah?!
I violently stir up her pussy while I grip her tail.
Ahh, your dick is... going so deep too, ahh, hnng, M-Master, m-mercy, ohooo!
So, this is your weak spot too, huh! Take that! I'll tease both your tail and your pussy lots!
I squeeze her tail as hard as I can while I rock my hips.
Hnng, if you squeeze it that hard, I can't stop shivering, hnng, ooh, ahh!
Lucifer's pussy tightens up the more I squeeze her tail, coiling around my dick.
Hahaha, look at this desperate hag go! One squeeze of her tail and her pussy is holding my dick tighter than ever!
Ahh, I-I can't believe a mere human is treating Lord Lucifer this way...
Hnng, this is my master, haaah, who's kind enough to use me as his cock sleeve, ohooo! My incredible master!
Hnng, ohoo, look, a single stroke of his dick is enough to drive me crazy, hnng♪ Even my tail is being violated! I'm so happy♪
Well there's lots more where that came from, you hag! But you better thank me first for using your ancient pussy!
Yes, thank you! Please violate me more! Dominate my pussy! You can use my tail and my horns however you'd like to, so please, more dick!
*Squelch!*
Hnng, it's coming~ So rough, ooooh! I-I'll go crazy, hnng! My tail... ohooo!
Lucifer squirms around in pleasure, her large breasts jumping up and down right in front of the demon watching.
Ahh, hnng, this dick is making my head spin, I love it! Hnng, it's teaching me that I'm nothing more than a hole to be fucked!
Hnng, ahhh, more, Master! Do me harder! Squeeze my tail! I'll do anything for you, hnnng!
Lucifer starts rocking her own hips along with my thrusting, her pussy squeezing my dick tightly.
Ahhh! You're doing a pretty decent job as a cock sleeve today! I'll have to reward you for that, slutty bunny!
I start fucking her even harder, churning up her tight insides.
Hnng, ahhh, what a wonderful reward! Thank you for fucking my bunny pussy so hard, hnng! Your dick is messing me up!
*Squelch!*
Hnng, ahh, haah, my pussy is being pulled inside out, haah! Your dick is being so rough, I couldn't be happier!
Even her asshole starts quivering in joy as thick pussy juices run down her thighs.
Ahhh, haah, your dick feels so good, m-my entire body is going numb, haah! I-I need to tighten my pussy, but... ahhh!
Here I was complimenting you and now you start going loose?! You were acting all high and mighty in front of your underling just seconds ago! Pull yourself together, hag!
Hnng, oooh, ohooo, my tail will come off! Hnnng, mercy! I-I'll tighten up, I swear!
The demon watching starts trembling in fear as she sees me dominate Lucifer right in front of her eyes.
Hnng! How is this, Master! Hnng, I'm doing my best to tighten my pussy! Ahh, but this feels so good, I can't concentrate! I'll die!
If you can't even stroke my dick right then there's no reason to use this hag pussy now is there!
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Hnng, ahh, I'll do better! Oooh, I'll, hnng... my pussy is being stirred up?! I'm going to cum!
I continue simply fucking Lucifer like a sex toy, enjoying the sound of her desperate moans.
Hnng, ahhh, your dick is so rough, oooh! My womb is dropping down, hnng! It's coming to drink your semen! Your dick is hitting my womb!
Ahhhh, Master, hnng, I'm going to cum from that! Haah, if you keep doing that, I'll cum hard!
Lucifer's pussy starts tightening up from the rough fucking, which makes a warm tingling start building up in my crotch.
If you try cumming on your own I'll seal your ability to climax again, hag! If you don't want that then do better!
Hnnng, I don't want that! I want to cum! I'll do better, hnng, I'll tighten up, haah!
*Squelch!*
Hnng, ahh, so rough! I can tell your semen is coming! Hnng, my womb is opening up for you!
Lucifer's inner walls cling desperately to the head of my dick with each thrust, sending pleasant tremors through my shaft.
Ahhh, you're stroking my tail too, ohooo! This feels too good, hnng! Master, hurry, ooooh!
Lucifer convulses fiercely, her pussy quivering around my shaft as I start approaching climax.
I'm going to cum! Let's see if winning this big pot has made these old eggs more fertile!
Yes, please fill up this bunny sex toy with you semen, hnng! I'll definitely get pregnant this time, haah!
Hnng, cumming! I-I want to cum with you, Master! Haah, I'll get pregnant! It's going to fill up my womb!
*Spluurt! Spluuurt!*
Hnnng, ahhhh, it's here! Hnng, oooh, cumming, cumming! I'm being knocked up, ohooo!
Since I'm squeezing her tail too her pussy starts squirming even more fiercely than usual as my semen starts filling her up.
Seeing the demon's terrified face as the pleasure washes over me makes it feel even better.
Hnnng, my whole body is tingling so much, oooh! My pussy won't stop cumming!
Hnng, ahhh, your dick is stirring me up, ooooh... ahh, so deep! My pussy is being filled up... I'll get pregnant!
Ticklish pleasure spreads through my shaft as semen continue spraying out into Lucifer's pussy.
Phew~ That felt good, but I still got some more for you! I'll use you as a toilet. Don't spill it and dirty the floor, you hear?!
Ahhn?! Haah, M-Master, oooh... y-you're going to... use me as a toilet too? Ahhn!
*Tinkle, tinkle!*
Haaaah, pee~ Hnng, I'll tighten up to k-keep it in... hnng, I'll be a good toilet! M-My tail, haaah?!
What, you're not saying you'll fail at your job as a toilet from simply having your tail squeezed, are you?!
Ahhn, o-of course not, ohooo! Ahhg, I-I'll do a good job as your toilet, ohooo?! Hnng, there's so much, haaah!
He's really dominating the Demon Queen herself?! P-Please, forgive me! I'll give you everything here! Y-You can dirty the place any way you want, just please, mercy!
Seeing me use Lucifer as a toilet seems to be the last straw, and the demon bows deeply in terror, scared of my power.
Hahaha! Well, I guess the whole casino isn't half bad for a day's worth of gambling. And you got some piss, so you're happy too, right hag?
Hnng, ahhh, o-of course, ohooo~ Being used as a toilet by you is the best, Master♪
Ooooh, you can use any part of me in any way you want, any time, ohooo!
And just like that I obtained more money than I know what to do with.
My name is spread across the land even faster than before, and tales are told of my feats across the world.
All I have to do is take Lucifer out with me on a walk to kill some time, and I'll end up saving the world without even lifting a finger.
I've gotten pretty used to being revered as some great hero at this point, and well, it's a good feeling.
Hwaah~ Oh, we got some more gifts? And what, they're requesting an audience with me?
I enjoy the pleasant morning air as I stretch, looking down at Lucifer.
Yes, that's right! These are just some of the gifts they've brought in order to get to meet you.
Lucifer points over at a pile of treasure, still bowing deeply in front of my feet.
Will you see them? In that case, could I please ask permission to lick your feet while you do?
I feel Lucifer's warm breath tickle my toes.
Hmph, fine, let them in. You better do a good job cleaning my feet!
I stick my toes out in front of Lucifer.
You may enter, though you better show your gratitude towards my master for allowing you to be in his presence!
Well then, I'll start cleaning your feet, ahhn...
Lucifer doesn't even bother waiting for the representatives to enter the room, and instantly starts licking my feet instead.
Mmmhg, sllrp, mmwah, ahh, mmmhg...
Excuse us! Oh, great savior of this land! First, let me start by thanking you for accepting our gifts!
They all send Lucifer a quick glance, but it's already well known by now that scenes like these are to be expected in my presence, so they don't seem to mind.
They start by praising me for all my recent feats, like most who come to see me do.
Sllrp, mmwah, sllrp, mmhg, I'm so happy I get to clean your feet, slllrp, mmwah!
Sllrp, mmmhg, sllrp, mmwah, slllrp!
And of course, the whole time, Lucifer carefully licks my toes.
While I'm enjoying the ticklish pleasure of Lucifer's tongue, the representatives suddenly look at me with gloomy expressions.
Despite of your incredible feats, there are still those living in fear of monsters coming from the sea, as well as those living near active volcanos...
Could you please come help save them as well?
Slllrp, quiet, fools! You dare walk in here asking my master for favors?! Begone!
Shut up, hag! Your job is to lick my feet! Don't speak unless told to do so!
I shove my toe deeper into Lucifer's mouth.
Mhhhg?! I'm terribly sorry! I'll do my job♪ Mmmhg, I'll clean under your nails too!
Lucifer goes back to desperately licking my feet all over.
Don't worry guys, those feats should be no problem for me. Well, for this masochist hag anyways!
I'll help of course, slllrp! I'll do anything you ask of me, Master! Sllrp, ahh...
I'll send anyone who dares trouble my master and his domain to the Pits of Hell...
It sounds like difficult feats to me, but I don't care. Get it all done for me, hag!
Mmmmwah, sllrp, leave it to me, Master! Slllrp, you hear that, humans? Slllrp!
Yes! We're sorry to come here to ask favors of you, oh great savior... thank you so much!
The representatives all bow in unison.
Don't worry, I like it! Hahaha, okay, what should we start with, hag!
Slllrp, mmmhg, anything you want, Master, slllrp!
I enjoy the ticklish pleasure spreading throguh my tose, and decide to—
It sounds fun going to the beach for a vacation, so I decide to go to deal with the sea monsters first.
I enjoy the pleasant breeze as I look over at Lucifer, who's wearing a lewd swimsuit.
Ahhhn, Master, what do you think? Hnng, does this suit me? Ahhn♪
She starts posing for me in her swimsuit.
Hehe, not bad. Keep dancing for me until the monsters show up.
Okay♪ Please enjoy, haah~ Please get hard from my perverted bikini dance!
She instantly starts shaking her hips for me.
The thin fabric of her swimsuit is barely covering anything at all.
Hahaha, what a desperate dance, hag! I like it!
Ahh, I'm glad you're enjoying yourself, Master♪ I'd love to keep going but... these stupid monsters picked the worst time to show up!
Something starts moving out of the sea behind Lucifer, interrupting her dance.
Oh, the monsters are coming? Oh? What the hell is that! That's a rare monster for sure!
A large number of tentacles starts moving out from the sea as a strange monster approaches.
It appears to be some kind of giant squid or some other type of massive sea monster with tentacles, probably strong enough to tear down entire ships.
Haha, I can see why people are terrified of this thing! I doubt even a group of knights from the royal army could fight this thing!
How dare you bring your filthy tentacles close to my master! Begone foul creature!
Stop it you moron! Don't kill it! I want to tame this thing!
Huh? O-Okay, Master! O magic of mine, strike my foe with thunder and leave it at death's door!
Lucifer seems confused at me wanting to keep the creature alive, but does what I tell her, wounding it without finishing it off.
And with the creature so weak, it's easy for me to bind it to my will.
Phew, and that's the ritual done with. From now on your name is Tentacoo—wait that's copyrighted. Tentaclo!
Now under my control, Tentaclo starts happily moving its tentacles around in the air.
Congratulations. I'm happy you've added another monster to your ranks, Master. Though, if I may, for what purpose did you enslave this one?
Well, he might not be nearly as strong as you, but I've thought of a good use for him. Time to use these tentacles on you!
Using my new connection with Tentaclo, I start moving his tentacles around for a bit, then guide them towards Lucifer.
Time to enjoy this new power!
*Squiggle! Squelch!*
Hnnng, ahhh, your dick is coming! You're even stroking my breasts♪ Oooh, what a wonderful power, Master! I love it, hnng!
My dick easily slips inside Lucifer's pussy, while I wrap my tentacles around her body.
Ahh, now we're talking! I can feel everything through these tentacles like they were my own! Haha, this is awesome!
I move my tentacles around Lucifer's body, enjoying the new sensation.
*Squelch! Squelch!*
Hnnng, i-it's like there's several of you touching me at once! Ohoo, hnng, it's making your dick feel so much better!
Each time one of my tentacles move across her body, Lucifer squirms around in joy.
Your dick isn't even moving, haah, ahh, yet my pussy is twitching so much! Ohoo, my body is trembling, haah, ahhh♪
We're just getting started here, yet your hag pussy is squirming so much! I wonder if you will be able to endure this to the end!
Ahhn, I-I will! A-As your new servant's superior, I'll do my best to endure it all!
So don't hold back! Stir up my swimsuit clad hag body as much as you want, Master!
Hahaha, look at this hag go! All right, I'll take you up on that!
Haah, help yourself! Do whatever you want with me, Master! Hnng, ahhh, it's coming!
I continue moving my tentacles around her body as I begin rocking my own hips too.
Hnnng, it's hitting my clit and my boobs, haaah! Y-You'll tear them off, ohoooo!
I use the tentacles to pull on Lucifer's clit and nipples.
Haah, ahh, m-my whole body is trembling... hnng, I-I can't control my pussy! I can't squeeze it!
Lucifer's pussy lips quiver furiously around my dick from the constant stimulation.
Ticklish pleasure spreads through my crotch from her tight insides, and I enjoy the soft touch of her body through my tentacles at the same time.
Haaah, this is new! I'm a genius for enslaving this guy! I can't stop, this is great!
Hnnng, oooh, haah! I can't stop trembling, ohooo! Haah, hnng, it tickles! My nipples are going numb!
Y-You're pulling so hard on my clit... hnng, haah, ohooo! W-Wait, Master! Ahhh!
Lucifer trembles in my grasp, and love juices spray everywhere as I pull on her clit.
Hahaha, what do you mean wait! You're clearly loving this, hag! Keep moving!
Haah, Master, m-mercy! Ohooo! I-I'll go crazy from all this pleasure, haaah!
She starts convulsing non-stop from the constant stimulation assaulting her entire body.
Hahaha! You're a sex toy, you're meant to please me, not the other way around! Try harder, hag!
Hnnng?! Haah, my whole body is jumping around... haah, ahhh, your dick is going out...?! Haaah!
I simply treat her like a mere toy, fucking her roughly with both my dick and tentacles.
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Hnnng! Ohooo, haah, Master, so rough?! Haah, my pussy is going to break!
Ahhhg, it's going so deep! Ohooo, my nipples and my clit too?! Hnng, m-my whole body is going crazy, hnnng!
Treating you this rough makes your pussy tight enough for me to enjoy, hag! Tentaclo, keep that up!
Shiver of pleasure constantly run up my spine as I violently stir up Lucifer.
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Hnnng, no matter how hard I try to squeeze I can't slow down your dick, hnng! It's jabbing at my womb, haaah!
Hnnng, your dick is pulling on my pussy walls! Ohooo, ooooh, each stroke is stretching my pussy!
All right, this is a good chance to shape your pussy after my dick! You're my sex toy, after all!
I start moving even faster, holding her firmly in place with my tentacles.
*Smack! Squelch! Smack!*
Ohoooo! Please do, hnng, make me into your personal sex toy! Ohooo, that's what my pussy is for!
My womb is opening up, hnnng! My womb is being shaped after your dick, oooh! You're stirring up my whole pussy!
You better thank your new friend over here too! He's kind enough to play with your hag body, after all!
I run the tentacles tightly all over Lucifer, enjoying every inch of her body.
Haaah! Thank you! Haaah, I'm being used both inside and outside! Thank you so much for making this hag feel good!
Ohooo, hnng, I'm really grateful! Please, haah, finish re-shaping my pussy before I cum, haah, ahhh!
The constant pleasure makes Lucifer's pussy constrict fiercely around my shaft, making the urge to ejaculate intensify.
Ahhh, now we're talking! This sex toy isn't half bad after all! I guess I'll creampie you! I'm going to cum!
*Smack! Squelch! Smack!*
Ooooh, hnng, my womb is opening up, hnng! My pussy is turning into your dick's personal sex toy! Right there! Fill me up!
Hnng, I'll get pregnant, oooh! My sex toy pussy is going to get knocked up while I cum non-stop! Haaah, it's coming!
*Spluurt! Spluuurt!*
Hnnnng, ohoooo! Cumming, cumming! Haah, ahhhh!
Lucifer squirts hard as her inner walls clamp down on my shaft.
Haaah, it's going so deep! Hnng, your sticky juices are filling me up, haah! It's going all the way in my womb! I'm being knocked up, haah!
Tingling pleasure surge through my member as I enjoy pumping my semen into Lucifer.
Ahhh, this is great, the pleasure from the tentacles make it feel even better than normal!
Hnng, my sex toy pussy will drink all your semen, hnnng! I'll drink it all, haah! It's clinging to the inside of my pussy!
Ahhhh, I'm cumming non-stop from your semen Master! Hnnng, cumming, oooh! My sex toy pussy is cumming!
Well if you like it that much, I guess I'll make you cum some more! Take this!
I feel like exerting my dominance over her a little more and start peeing inside Lucifer.
*Tinkle, tinkle!*
Haaah, ahhh! Hnng, thank you so much! It's stirring up the semen in my womb, hnnng!
Lucifer lets out a shriek as my pee start filling up her pussy, making her insides tighten up around my dick once more.
Ohooo, thank you so much for using my hag pussy this much, ohooo!
Her body trembles non-stop as she happily accepts my pee.
Hnng, haah, ahhh… there's so much inside me… haah, ahhn♪
Haha, did my pee make you that happy?! Well, I'd feel bad ending it here then! Tentaclo!
Hnng?! Ohooo, the tentacles are moving?! N-Not there, ahhhn?!
I pull out my dick, quickly replacing it with one of my tentacles.
Haaah, ahh, ohooo, th-this is… hnng, haah, ahh!
Lucifer can do nothing but moan in ecstasy as the tentacles continue violating her.
Haha, those are some good moans, hag! Not exactly fitting for a nice, calm beach, but I like it!
Hnng, ahhh, ohooo, as long as you enjoy it then I'm happy, Master, hnng, haah! It's still moving, ohooo?!
haah, ahhh, th-the tentacles are, haah, stirring me up, oooh, ohooo!
I can feel her insides quivering through the tentacles each time she climaxes.
That's it Tentaclo, haha! I think this guy has more uses than you, hag!
Ahhg, haah, yes, that's right Master! Ohoooo, could you slow him down, haaah!
Her body is clearly enjoying this, so I keep watching Lucifer squirm around desperately from the pleasure of my tentacles for a while longer.
After dealing with the monster and making it my own, peace returned to the nearby towns.
With that out of the way we headed for the volcano next.
It turns out the volcano is being stirred by various fire monsters, which should be extremely easy for Lucifer to deal with.
I was at least expecting some powerful creatures like Ifreet, not these pathetic lizards...
These things are of no use to me, so just kill the lot of them.
Did you hear that, foul creatures? Well, whether you did or not will not change your fate. Begone!
O great frost from beyond, extinguish these feeble flames!
Lucifer finishes a chant, and the salamanders are all wiped out in the blink of an eye.
The people living nearby witnessed our feat and came to thank us.
As thanks they presented me with a nearby hot spring, which had been closed for a while due to the monsters.
Wow, this place is pretty big! Not bad! Lucifer, get ready and do the thing I told you!
With that Lucifer gets ready, preparing based on my instructions.
Welcome. My name is Lucifer. I'll be your companion today.
Lucifer bows deeply in front of me, addressing me as if she's never met me before.
I will do my best to please you, sir. I hope you and your dick will enjoy yourselves.
I have instructed Lucifer to act like one of the pretty prostitutes I was unable to get with back when I hung with the hero and his party.
Sure enough, making Lucifer put on this act does make me shiver with excitement.
Hahaha, okay, I'm in your hands!
Very well. In that case, let me start by giving your dick a little greeting before washing you. Mhhg!
Lucifer leans in towards my crotch, gently wrapping her tongue around my dick.
Slllrp, mmwah, mmmhg, please enjoy yourself, sllllrp!
Her warm and slippery tongue runs across my dick, starting to lick it clean before even getting in the water.
Sllrp, mmwah, hnng, sllllrp! What an impressive dick, hehe. My jaw hurts from sucking something so big♪
Mhhhg, sllrp, I will do everything I can, sllrp, and use my whole body to pleasure you, mmhg!
The way she treats not only me, but my dick as being above her fills me with excitement.
Phew, I like the sound of that!
Mmwah, sllrp, I'm glad. Please give yourself, sllrp, mmwah, to my service, mmwah!
Slllrp, mmmhg, slllrp! Hnng, mmwah, sllllrp, mmmhg!
After cleaning my dick, Lucifer reluctantly stops sucking.
Hnng… haah, hopefully my greeting and cleansing of your dick was satisfactory. Hnng...
Lucifer bows so deeply her head hits the ground.
Your dick was truly delicious, all covered in thick dick cheese. Just what this slut needed. Haah, thank you♪
Her incredibly lewd attitude and way of talking makes me swallow my saliva in excitement.
Hehe, well, hopefully you can thank me by entertaining me properly!
Of course. I will do my utmost to please you♪
Then please, lie down here and enjoy yourself while your incredible dick is still hard.
Lucifer helps me lie down, and quickly starts her service.
…
Well then, let me begin. Hnng, I'll start by washing your wonderful body, haah, hnng♪
Lucifer covers me in soap, then starts washing me with her breasts.
Her soft skin feels wonderful as it slides across my chest, moving smoothly thanks to the soap.
Am I too heavy? Hnng, haah, I'll make sure your entire body is spotless, haah, ahhn♪
It's fine. Your body feels nice and soft. A good replacement for a sponge.
Ahhn, I'm glad you enjoy it. Haah, I'll wrap myself around you to make sure I can reach everywhere, hnng, haah!
She uses her legs to wash my lower half, while she moves her breasts up and down my chest.
A pleasant tingling spreads through my whole body as she keeps rubbing up against me.
Haah...
Seeing you enjoy yourself like that makes me incredibly happy. Haah, please keep enjoying, hnng, haah...
As she continues washing me, a wet sound different from the soap suddenly fills the area.
*Squelch! Squelch!*
I'm terribly sorry for interrupting, Master. My pussy has gotten wet from washing you it seems, haah...
May I still continue? Haah, I know I am supposed to be cleaning you, yet I'm… haah, hnng, ahhh♪
She gazes at me with a lustful stare, clearly wanting more than just to wash me.
Phew, you got so horny you can't wait? Fine, I'll have some fun with that soaked pussy then I guess!
*Smack!*
Hnnng! Thank you, haaah! How kind of you!
Lucifer jumps as I slap her ass, though she continues rubbing her body against mine.
*Squelch!*
Haaah, ahhg, hnng, your dick is inside me! N-Now I'll start moving… ohooo!
She starts rocking her body back and forth as my dick fills her pussy.
My body feels more sensitive than usual thanks to the soap, making her pussy feel even better than normal.
Haah, ahh, I-I feel you with my whole body, haah! It's making my womb tingle, hnng!
Ahh, that'sit! Keep going like that!
*Smack!*
hnnng, o-okay, I will, hnnng! I'll work hard to, haaah, please you! Ohooo!
hnng, oooh, I'll use my soaked pussy to, oooh, stroke your dick lots! Haah, I'll rub it lots!
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Ohooo, it feels so good! Hnng, your dick is making my pussy feel so good, haah!
P-Please keep smacking my ass and, haaah, go harder!
Lucifer shakes her ass in excitement, clearly wanting more.
You shouldn't be asking your customer to do the work you moron!
*Smack! Smack! Smack*
hnnng, ahhh, thank you so much for fucking my moronic pussy! Hnng, I'll move… haah!
Each slap makes Lucifer's insides wriggle desperately around my shaft.
Hnng, the head is going so deep, hnng! Oooh, o-oh no, I'm enjoying myself!
You're still not moving fast enough! Try harder! You said you'd please me, didn't you!
*Smack!*
Yes! I'll use my scalding hot pussy, hnng, to stroke your dick! Ooooh, it's pulling on my insides, haaah!
Hnng, my mind is going blank! I can't stop moaning like a beast, haah! Please, mercy!
I wasn't expecting you to actually fit the role of an elegant prostitute anyways! Just act like the slutty bitch you are and keep going!
*Smack! Smack! Smack*
Hnnng, haah, very well! Ohoooo, you can cum inside my slut pussy any time you want, ohoo!
Fuck me more, haah! Hnng, haah, it's hitting my womb! I'm going to cum!
Lucifer's inner walls quiver around my shaft as I prod at her womb.
Hnng please, fill up my desperate pussy before I cum, haaah!
Her warm and tight insides keep a firm hold of my dick, and soon a tingling pleasure starts moving up my shaft.
Hahaha, looks like you'll get your wish! Keep squeezing me like that and I'll fill up your hag pussy!
*Smack!*
Well then, I'll keep squealing like a slut, hnng! Please pour your sticky juices in my perverted pussy!
Ahhg, hnng, I'll go crazy if you keep hitting my womb! I'll cum! Please let it all out inside me!
*Spluuuurt! Spluuurt! Psssh!*
Hnng, amazing! Haah, ahh, cumming! Ohooo, it's so deep, ahhhn!
Lucifer starts squirming around on top of me like a snake as I cum inside her.
Ahhhg, ooooh, y-your semen is filling my womb, hnng! I'm cumming over and over, ahhhh!
Ahhg, haah, your semen is coming to, oooh, knock up my whole body, haaah!
My head grows cloudy for a second as the pleasure of my orgasm spreads through my body, numbing my senses.
Hnng, ahhh, I'm terribly sorry for enjoying myself more than you! Haah, your dick is too incredible, I can't help it!
Don't worry, I'll just keep having my way with this hole until I'm satisfied!
*Smack!*
Hnnng?! Ohooo, your dick is, haaah, spreading me more! Haaah!
I give her ass a solid slap, push my dick further inside her pussy before starting to pee.
*Tinkle, tinkle!*
Ahhhh, haah, ahhh, pee! Haaah, ahh, it's so warm, ohooo!
Lucifer lets out a howl as my warm pee starts invading her pussy.
Haah, ahhh, it's mixing with your semen deep inside, ohooo! It's being stirred together in my pussy!
Phew~ Well we're getting in the bath after this so I can dirty you as much as I want, right!
Ohooo, ahh, yes! Hnnng, you can dirty both my pussy and my body as much as you want!
Ahh, it's seeping into me, hnng! My pussy won't be able to forget the taste of your pee, ohooo!
Lucifer's pussy continues quivering fiercely around my shaft as she keeps climaxing for a while.
Haah, ahh… was my service satisfactory for you, M-Master?
A strong smell of pussy juices drifts up into my nose, and Lucifer glances up at me in euphoria.
Phew, well I guess it wasn't half bad. But you were definitely enjoying yourself more than me.
Ahhg, haah, ahh, yes, I'm terribly sorry… haah, ahh, I'll train my pussy for next time...
So please, haah, let me take care of you here again sometime. I'll keep my pussy warm and wet for you♪
I let Lucifer gently rub her body against me for a while longer, as I bask in the afterglow of my orgasm.
Haha, well I guess you were good enough to warrant using you again.
Ahhn, thank you! I'll please you in lots of different ways next time, Master♪
She keeps pressing her large breasts against me while her sweet moans fill my ears.
After clearing out the volcano I was given the hot spring permanently as a gift.
And so, I'd already taken care of both the monsters in the ocean, and the trouble at the volcano.
I decide to start by solving some trouble in Hell with Lucifer.
There's been many of you fools coming up to the surface causing trouble while I've been gone. I take it none of you are stupid enough to make a mistake like that?
After coming back to Hell Lucifer instantly took quick and ruthless action against the demons who were acting out in her absence.
Of course! We're all loyal to you, Lord Lucifer!
Lucifer glares at her followers in anger from her throne, and they all kneel before her in terror.
Hehe, good. Though, perhaps it would be best to destroy you too, just in case your mind changes in the future.
I don't like seeing Lucifer acting all high and mighty like this again, now that I'm her master.
You sure sound high on yourself, but if you just did a good job keeping them in check in the first place this wouldn't have happened.
M-Master?! I-I'm terribly sorry! I-I've embarrassed myself yet again...
I bet the reason these morons come after me is because they don't get the extent of my power yet.
Th-That is probably correct… w-wait, Master, do you mean you'll show them right here? Hnng...
That's right, I'll show them! Don't worry about getting up, I'll just use you like that!
I bring out my dick and bring it over to Lucifer's mouth.
Mmmmhg, slllrp, hnng, th-this is so out of the blue, mmmhg, slllrp!
Lucifer jolts from the impact of my dick being thrust into her mouth, but quickly catches her balance, happily taking it.
Mmmhg, haah, I'm honored I get to, slllrp, taste your dick down here once again, mmwah, slllrp!
Eeek?! Look what he's doing to Lord Lucifer?!
Phew, this is just like the first time I fucked and broke you, huh!
I keep violating Lucifer's mouth as I enjoy the scared cries of her followers from behind us.
Mmmhg, yes, hnng, this dick still tastes just as delicious as it did then, sllrp, mmwah!
I'm so thankful to this dick for teaching me the joy of licking up a man's dick cheese, sllrp!
Haha, you sure have changed! Back then you were going on and on about killing me, you know!
The only thing I had on my mind back then was at least fucking a woman once before dying.
Yet here we are, with this sexy demon queen spilling her pussy juices around in excitement from the taste of my dick.
Hnnng, yes, I was a stupid hag virgin who didn't even know the wonders of your dick, sllrp♪
Mmmhg, I'm terribly sorry for my behavior back then, sllrp, mmwah! Let me make it up to you by servicing you lots, slllrp!
Lucifer starts rocking her head back and forth, wrapping her tongue around my shaft.
Ahh, that's it! Let me hear those lewd sounds! Make sure it's loud enough to creep out your underlings too!
Said underlings all just watch Lucifer in a mix of shock and fear.
Okay♪ Mmmhg, sllrp, mmwah! I love your dick, Master! Slllrp, it's the best!
Your pussy is starting to stink up the place! What, are you saying a blowjob isn't enough?!
Hnnng?! Mmmhg, that's not it! M-My perverted hole is just being greedy, sllllrp!
Lucifer continues desperately sucking my dick, which just makes the scent stronger.
You're creeping everyone out by stinking up the place like this! Fine, I'll use your pussy to plug the scent I guess!
Hnnng! Mhhg, please do! Just the taste of your dick made my pussy soaked! Sllrp, use it however you want!
I pull my dick out of her mouth and stick it in her pussy while I slap her tits.
*Smack!*
Hnnng! Ohooo, thank you so much for fucking my hag pussy!
Her pussy tightens up around my shaft the moment I slap her boobs.
Yeah you better thank me! You should be eternally grateful to your master!
I start stirring up Lucifer right in front of her underlings, who all just stare in awe.
Hnnng, I am! I'm, haah, eternally grateful that you, oooh, are willing to fuck such an ancient pussy!
Ahhh, feeling your dick so deep inside me is, haah, already making me want to cum!
Don't go cumming before your master! What a useless hag pussy this is!
*Smack! Squelch! Smack!*
Hnnng, ahhh, your dick is too incredible, s-so my useless pussy is going to cum right away!
Ahhg, please punish this hag for being so impatient, haah! Stir me up with your dick!
Lucifer shakes her legs around while her pussy constricts firmly around my dick.
Looks like you at least know your place! But you're so useless, you can't even use your pussy right!
*Smack! Smack! Smack*
Hnnng, y-yes, I'm sorry! Ohooo, please punish me so I can learn!
Lucifer's pussy tightens up so much, it feels like my balls are going to get sucked up my dick from the intense suction.
Begging is the only thing you're good for! Fine, I'll fuck you until you break then!
*Smack! Squelch! Smack!*
Yes, stir up my sex toy pussy! Keep hitting my womb with your dick, ohooo♪
Ahhn, it's knocking so hard against my womb! Haah, ahh, my womb is being pried open!
I guess this hole isn't that bad for a hag! I'm going to cum!
*Smack! Squelch! Smack!*
Haah! My womb is clinging to the tip! Hnnng, it feels too good, haah! My pussy can't take any more!
Please cum in me before my pussy can't endure any more♪ Hnng, haah, ohooo, hurry please!
My dick starts prying open the entrance to her womb, sending intense pleasure through my shaft with each stroke.
Ahhh, I'm going to knock you up in front of your underlings! Let them see you cum from being fucked and slapped!
*Smack! Squelch! Smack!*
Hnng♪ I'll get pregnant! My pussy wants to get knocked up so bad, haah, I can't stop moving!
It's stirring up my pussy, oooh! Please fill me up with your sticky juices♪ Hnng, it's coming! Haah, cumming, cumming!
*Spluuurt! Spluuurt!*
Ooooh, cumming! Haah, your semen is here♪ Hnng, your thick juices are filling me up, haah!
Lucifer freezes up as a spray of clear juices erupts from her pussy.
Haah, hnng, I'm cumming from being knocked up… haah, it keeps coming into my womb, ohooo!
Don't spill any! This is my semen, so you better be grateful and keep it all inside!
Hnnng, yes, haah! I'll keep sucking it all deep inside my pussy! Hnng, haah!
Ahhh, there's so much, my womb is expanding! Ohoooo, your lovely semen keeps filling me up! Hnng, I'll die!
You might be a hag, but you won't die that easy! Stop squirming around and keep drinking my cum!
I push my dick as deep inside her as I can and start rubbing the tip against the base of her womb.
Hnng, haah, okay, I will! Hnng, ooooh, please use my pussy as a tissue to wipe your dick, oooh!
Ahh, haaah! How's this, Master! Ohooo, hnng♪
Lucifer happily sticks out her hips, trembling fiercely as she continues climaxing again and again.
Phew, not bad, I guess. I suppose you're not half bad to use instead of a tissue when I need to wipe my dick.
Hnng, it's all thanks to your training, Master! Please keep training my hag pussy, ohoo♪
Ahh… I can't believe that human is… dominating Lord Lucifer like that...
Lucifer's underlings are tremble in terror as they watch me dominate their master.
That's right, oooh! I can't go against this man's might, haah! I'd never! Master, please use me as your cock sleeve for all of eternity!
Lucifer keeps gently moving her hips around to wipe the cum off my dick inside her.
Hahaha! Well, you heard her! So let's all play along and not do something stupid to upset me, shall we!
Y-Yes, of course, oh great master of our master!
Blood starts rushing back to my dick form the excitement of having everyone bow down to me.
Ahhn, your dick is getting hard again! Haah, Master, please use me more to prove your power!
Haha, all right, fine! If these guys are anything like you, they are slow learners, so let's show them my power again!
After that I officially became the new ruler of Hell.
And of course, I was never targeted by any foolish demons ever again.
I quickly took care of the rest of the problems on our plate, spreading my name through the world even further.
Soon there wouldn't be a single person alive who hadn't heard the tales of my feats.
But it hardly had much of an effect on my life. After all, I spent my days like I always do, having fun with my Demon Queen sex toy.
Hwaah… guess it's time for breakfast.
Since my dick is still hard after waking up, I decide to go feed my sex toy first thing in the morning.
*Squelch!*
Ohooo, hnng! Thank you so much for offering your wonderful dick to feed me, hnng♪
Lucifer happily shakes her ass around, looking down at the bowl in front of her.
Phew, if you want to eat then you better send lots of your magic into my balls and suck me dry!
I hold out my dick towards Lucifer, still feeling a little sleepy from just waking up.
I will! I'll stroke your dick lots and use my magic to help your balls make lots more delicious semen, ohooo!
I'll clean all your dick cheese off while I, hnng, start wringing out your semen, haah!
You're lucky I'm your master! I doubt anyone else would bother fucking such a desperate hag pussy!
Hnng, I've been horny all-night thinking about your dick! I-I'm sorry, haah!
Thank you so much for being this hard for this hag so early in the morning, hnng!
Haha, looks like your hag womb is coming down to say thanks too! It's clinging to my dick!
I start gently moving my hips, and even just that sends intense pleasure rushing up my spine.
Yes, my hag pussy is nearing its expiry date, so it's desperately sucking on your dick!
My hag pussy is giving your incredible dick a desperate and starved blowjob!
*Squelch! Squelch!*
Haah, I can taste your semen through your dick! Hnng, my pussy won't stop drooling, haah!
Sure enough, Lucifer is already so wet that each stroke makes pussy juices fly all over the place
Ooooh, Master, hurry! Please feed me your dick milk, oooh!
Hnng, Master please cum! Haah, right there! Please cum from my pussy's blowjob!
Lucifer's pussy starts squeezing my dick tightly, trying to force out the semen built up in my balls from a long night's rest.
Ahhh, I'm getting close! Keep that up and I'll cum, hag!
Hnnng, it's coming! Haaah, my pussy can tell your semen is approaching! It won't stop quivering!
Hnng, oooh, I'm going to cum from preparing my food! Ahhh, my womb can't take this, ohooo, please cum with me! Haaah!
*Spluuurt! Spluuurt! Psssh*
Hnng, your dick is leaving… cumming! Ohoooo, thank you so much!
I pull out right before cumming and start spraying the bowl and Lucifer's face with semen.
Haah, ahhh, haah, semen! Hnng, ahh, haaah, there's so much… don't waste it!
Just watching it is, haah, making my pussy drool so much!
Wait! Don't eat until I tell you!
I call out before Lucifer can lick up any of the semen.
Hnng, haah, okay, I'll wait… ahh, there's so much… haah...
Hahaha, well there's even more where that came from, so just wait patiently! Ahh, it's coming!
Thanks to the magic Lucifer filled me with, I quickly make more semen, and a shiver rushes up my spine as another orgasm starts by itself.
*Spluurt! Spluuuuurt!*
Ahhhhh! There's even more! Haaah, there's so much, I'll drown… amazing, Master!
Lucifer cries out in joy as she watches the incredible amount of semen spilling into her bowl.
Haah, just watching this is making me so hungry… please, let me drink up your delicious milk!
Calm down, haah… I still got more stored up for you.
*Spluurt!*
Ahhhn, okay! Haah, ahhh, I want it all! Haah, in my mouth, and my womb… hnng, ahh♪
Haah, it's stopping♪ Hnng, c-can I eat now, Master? Haah, haah...
I said wait. There's one more important ingredient coming… phew♪
*Tinkle, tinkle!*
Ahhhn♪ Haah, ahhh, your special sauce is coming, ahhhn♪
Lucifer stares at her bowl in bliss as my special sauce starts pouring on top of the semen.
Ahhn, hnng… haah, ahh, there's so much of your dick juices… I might just drink it all in one go♪
That's why I'm making sure there's enough to go around, phew~
Ahhh, thank you so much! P-Please, hurry! Let me drink… my stomach and my womb wants it so bad, haah, ahh♪
I told you to relax! Or are you saying you don't want any sprinkles on that?
I pull out some pubes and start sprinkling it on top of the bowl.
Pubic hair toppings, haaah! I was so entranced by your dick juices, I forgot about your wonderful sprinkles♪
Lucifer starts sniffing the air in excitement.
I've never been able to eat something so delicious my whole life! Even Luciel must be jealous of this feast♪
Hm? Luciel? Who's that. Hey, no eating until you answer!
Hnng, what! Luciel was like my sister back when I was up in Heaven.
She's always the type of angel who's all about making people happy and all that. She's been trying desperately to bring me back to Heaven after I fell.
Sounds like this Luciel is the opposite of Lucifer, huh.
But I bet even Luciel would be happy seeing me enjoy such an incredible meal! So please Master, hurry!
Hahaha, I wonder about that… but now you're making me want to see her reaction too.
Hearing about this angel Luciel has definitely piqued my interest. She must be quite a beauty, just like Lucifer.
Master, I answered! Please, haah, let me eat! Hurry, please!
Shut up, hag! Fine, you can eat you dumb pig!
Thank you, sllrp, mmwah! This is making my mind and pussy tingle! Ahh, I can't stop, sllrp, mmwah!
Lucifer throws herself at the bowl the moment she gets the green light.
Mmmhg, sllrp, ahh, my head is going blank form this taste, mmhg, sllrp!Bhhhrg!
Phew, you're one disgusting slut. You're just like a pig. Let me hear you squeal!
Oiiink! Haaah, I'm even worse than a pig, oiink! Haah,sllrp, I'm a desperate hag addicted to dick juices, oink!
Bhhrg! Mmmhg, sllrp, mmwah, sllrp! This taste is so divine, I can't stop slurping it all up, oiink!
Haha, good! You sound just like a pig!
Lucifer slurps down her meal with a blissful look on her face.
Ahh, sllrp, I'm so happy I get to eat such a divine breakfast! Sllrp, mmwah, sllrp, bhhrg!
To make the already perverted display more obscene, she keeps burping in between bites.
Mhhg, ahh, oiink… I ate so much… mmhg, it's so good, I ate too much, oiink♪
She finishes cleaning the bowl and goes on to lick up all the small drops of semen that spilled around the room.
Haah, your thick semen is the best… sllrp, bhhrg!
Mhhg, sllrp, but… bhhrg, there was even more than usual today. Mhhg, sllrp, I ate so much, my stomach hurts♪
You can't even tell when you've had enough? You really are just like a pig.
Sllrp, yes! When I'm given feed this good, I can't control myself at all, just like a pig! That's the case for all sluts!
As Lucifer squeals in joy, I start thinking about that Luciel again.
Do you think that goes for your sister Luciel as well?
Luciel? If she saw me this happy? Hehehe, she would get jealous for sure!Bhhrg !
Hahaha, I see. That makes me want to meet her for sure.
Mmhg, w-well if that's you want then of course, Master. I-I'm your loyal pig, after all, oiink, oiink!
I ignore Lucifer's oinks as I start thinking about the things I could do with Luciel.
She's an angel who wants Lucifer back, so I can use that.
Problem is, I don't know of any way to contact her, with her being in Heaven and all.
But, Lucifer is her sister, so I'm sure they must have some kind of connection, even now, so she can probably reach her.
I figured she had given up on me by now, but… hehe, looks like she's still got an open channel to let me reach her.
Haha, good! Then let's do it! I have a great plan! It's time to show your sister how happy you are.
Ahh, Master! Very well♪ Let us show Luciel how happy I am with you!
I have Lucifer make the proper preparations, and just like expected Luciel happily lets Lucifer come up to see her the moment she makes contact.
It's been a while, Luciel. It seems like you're still worried about me. I didn't think you'd let me into Heaven this easily.
B-Big sis! I'm so glad you contacted me after all this time!
Just like expected, Luciel is incredibly beautiful, just like her sister.
And more importantly, hot. That big ass sure is something.
But, why isn't your whole form up here?
Hehe, well I am a fallen angel. I can't come up all the way here anymore. Besides, my lower half is still down on earth.
This is all a part of my plan, of course. I instructed Lucifer to leave her lower half here on earth and teleport her upper half into Heaven.
I also have a clear view of everything happening thanks to her magic.
I see. Well, it's good to see you again. But… are you still not coming back to Heaven for good?
The smile fades from Luciel's face.
Hehe, you know the answer to that already. I have no interest in returning to such a dull place.
Yes, I'm aware you're set in your ways about this… so, where are you right now? It doesn't seem like you're in Hell...
Like I told you, I'm on Earth. Hehe, I bet you'll be surprised if you come see me. I've never been happier, you see. Hehe, I have my own master now!
I see, you're on Earth. Wait, huh?! You have a master?!
You called? Hi, I'm Lucifer's human master. Hey, hag, she can hear me, right?
Yes, Master! I've made it so she can hear you! Luciel, you hear him, right? That's my new master.
I am indeed! Nice to meet you. Well, you can't actually see me right now, but you know.
A human?! There's no way… you might have fallen from Heaven, but you still have the pride of an angel. There's no way you'd bow down to a mere human!
Silence! I won't let anyone look down on my master like that! He gives me joy not even God could!
S-Sister, that's blasphemy! You can't say things like that in Heaven!
Sorry to interrupt you two, but I'm bored. Lucifer, I'm using you!
I move over to Lucifer's lower half that's sticking out in front of me and start rubbing my dick against her wet pussy.
U-Using?! F-For what? What is this human doing while we're talking...
Ahhhn, haah, g-go ahead and use me, Master♪ Ahhn, I can't wait any longer either! Haah, it's hitting me~
Lucifer's pussy lips cling to my dick as I bring my dick close, and I instantly push it inside.
*Squelch!*
Hnng, oooh! Y-Your dick is inside! Haah, ahh, it feels even better than usual, ohoo!
S-Sister, what foul language! Eek?! Y-You have such an obscene look on your face...
Luciel starts looking around in confusion, clearly shocked at what's happening.
This only turns me on further, and I start stirring up Lucifer's tight pussy.
Hnnng, oooh, I can't help it! Haaah, his dick is prying my womb open, ohooo!
Ahh, of course I look like this when my hag pussy gets fucked! Hnng, oooh, I-I'm so happy!
Lucifer's pussy squeezes my dick tightly, proving that she enjoys showing off to her sister.
S-Sister, you can't be… a-are you c-copulating with a human?!
Hahaha, yes, we are copulating sweetheart! Though it took some training to get her here. This hag pussy was pretty useless at first!
I make sure Luciel can hear the sound of our bodies smacking together.
Thank you so much for using my good-for-nothing, dust-covered womb, Master!
Please keep stirring it up with your dick, hnng, oooh! My pussy feels so good!
Knock it off! My sister might have fallen once, but she's still one of the Lord's angels! I won't allow this!
You make it sound like I'm doing this against her will! Look at her, this hag loves this!
Yes, of course! I couldn't be happier! Having this dick violate my womb is, ohooo, the greatest joy of all!
Lucifer squeezes my dick with her pussy while she shows off her perverted expression to her sister.
Hahaha, look at that face! She's really loving it!
Hnnng, I-I'm so happy I get to be fucked by this dick, ohooo! I love having my sex toy pussy stirred up, haah!
Kuh! Sister, please, snap out of it!
Phew, looks like she doesn't get it yet! Keep telling her how much you love this, hag!
I lift up my hand and slap Lucifer's ass.
*Smack! Smack!*
Hnnng, of course, haah! I love it! My pussy feels so good! D-Don't worry about me!
The slap makes Lucifer cry out in joy.
Sister?! What was that sound?! Stop this at once, human!
See, she's still worried! You need to try harder, hag! Show her how happy you are!
*Smack! Smack! Smack*
Ohoooo, ahh, haaah! I-I'm so happy! Hnng, Luciel, haah, look how happy I am!
Ohooo, I'm just enjoying having my hag pussy stirred up by this incredible dick while I have my ass slapped!
*Smack! Smack! Smack*
Ohoooo, each stroke is making me so happy♪ The pain feels so good! It's all turning into pleasure, Master!
Lucifer squirms around in joy in front of Luciel.
Haah… o-okay, I get it, please… just stop it! Haah…
Hey, you did it, hag! Looks like she gets it now! I'll give you a reward then!
*Smack! Smack! Smack*
Hnng, ahhh, I-I'll cum right away from this! You're being so rough; my pussy is going to break!
I grab Lucifer's ass hard and start relentlessly stirring her up.
Hnnng, haah, Master, please fill me up with your stinky semen before I cum!
Tingling pleasure starts rushing up my shaft as I begin approaching climax.
Okay, here it comes! Show off your face to your sister as you get knocked up!
*Smack! Smack!*
Ohooo, I will, Master! Watch, Luciel♪ Watch me get knocked up! It's coming! I can't resist this pleasure!
I'm going to cum from being impregnated! Ohooo, ahhn, I'm cumming from this dick! Cumming!
*Spluurt! Spluuuuurt!*
Ahhn, ohooo! Haah, it's coming! Semen, ahh, haah!
Ahh… haah, haah...
Lucifer starts quivering fiercely, her pussy tightening up around my dick as my semen starts invading her insides.
I enjoy the pleasure of my orgasm and the satisfaction of dominating Lucifer in front of her sister while I pump semen into her.
Ohooo, oooh, my pussy won't stop trembling! Haah, I'm squirting so hard! I can't stop cumming!
Oooh, haah, ahh, there's so much, haah… th-this is true happiness, haah… my pussy is so sticky♪
Well you haven't shown her enough of your happiness yet! I'll keep using you, so keep the show going!
I pull my dick out and jam it in her ass instead this time.
Hnnng, ohoooo?! Haah, hnng, oooh, cumming, cumming!
Her ass instantly coils tightly around my shaft as Lucifer climaxes right away.
Ahh, haah, s-sister, what happened?!
Lucifer, stop cumming by yourself and tell your sister what I'm doing to you!
Hnnng, I-I'm having my asshole fucked by this incredible dick, haah, oooh! I can't get pregnant like this, but I'm cumming!
A-Ass? S-Sister, you can't be serious...
I am, I have a dick in my ass! I can't stop cumming, oooh! My whole body is trembling, ohooo! I love dick in my ass!
Ahh, you're getting too tight! I'm not planning on cumming in your ass, I just want to use it as a toilet to piss in!
Pee?! J-Just how much are you planning on dirtying my sister?! S-Sister, please!
Luciel looks down at Lucifer in desperation, though Lucifer simply shivers in anticipation.
Ahhn, hurry, please! Hurry and use my ass as a toilet! Ohooo, look closely, Luciel! Watch how happy it makes me to be a toilet♪
I concentrate, and eventually start peeing inside Lucifer's tight asshole.
*Tinkle, tinkle!*
Ohoooo, ooooh, ahhhh, i-it's coming, haaah! I-I can't stop cumming, haaaah!
Lucifer happily takes all my pee deep inside her while she starts squirting once again.
Luciel simply watches at a loss for words as her sister cums in front of her again and again.
Ahhg, ohoooo, my stomach is so full! It's even pushing against my womb, haah! Oooh, my womb is making me cum too!
Ahhh, hnng, I-I feel your warm pee filling me up, Master, ohooo! Hnng, oooh, ahh!
Ahh, haaah, sister… I...
Phew, that felt good~
I pull my dick out of Lucifer's ass, keeping a close look at the two through the magic monitor.
Hnng, w-wait, Master, ohoooo, it's going out?!
*Spluurt! Spluuuuurt!*
Ohoooo, it's spilling out, oooh, ohooo, hnng!
A torrent of both semen and pee starts gushing out from Lucifer's holes, spilling onto the ground.
Hey, don't spill it! How filthy! Well, I guess it just felt that good, huh.
Hnng, I'm terribly sorry, ohooo! It's leaking, oooh, I can't stop it, Master!
Hnng, oooh, t-to make it up to you, you can use my hag pussy as a toilet as much as you want!
Haha, you think that makes me happy?! That's like a punishment! But I guess I'll use a bit more. You better thank me! You love this dick more than God, right?!
Yes, you're greater than God, Master♪ God should be the one kneeling before your dick!
Lucifer might be reaching her limit, as the image I'm watching them through starts to distort.
Sister, such blasphemy is not allowed here in Heaven!
Please, ohooo, fuck me more with your dick! Make me happy with your dick, please! Mooore♪
The rest of Lucifer's body starts sliding through the portal to my side.
Ahhh, s-sister, please wait, I'll come save you!
Luciel shouts for Lucifer one last time before she falls through the portal, and the magic fades.
It doesn't take long for Luciel to act after the provocation.
We angels have come to Earth in search of the foolish human that dares enslave my sister! He will be found and turned to dust!
Luciel's voice rings across the lands, causing a panic to spread through the world.
Hahaha, just like you expected!
Yes, I must apologize on behalf of my sister. So, should we keep going according to plan and capture Luciel?
Of course! She's coming down here, so I can't waste the chance to play with her too!
Hehe, don't worry, I won't forget about your hag pussy just because she's here. I'll give you both attention!
I-In that case I have no complaints! I will do everything I can to bring my sister before you!
And so, we lay in wait for the angelic armies to find us.
It doesn't take long for Luciel to find us, and she descends from the Heaven's, gracefully flapping her white wings.
I've come to save you, sister.
Luciel glares in my direction as she spots me next to Lucifer.
And to let that human feel the wrath of Heaven for his sins!
Oh, sister, don't look at my master that way. We might be family, but I won't hold back if you bare your fangs at him.
Lucifer steps out in front of me, creating a wall of magic between herself and Luciel.
You might be powerful sister, but we will prevail and bring you back to normal!
Just like expected, Lucifer easily wipes the floor with the angels, while I simply watch from the sidelines.
Just like you predicted, Master! They stood no chance against my power! I win, Master!
Good job! Slimey, Tentaclo, bind the ones on the ground and curse them!
With that command both my familiars are summoned from magic circles, grabbing the unsuspecting angels.
Eeeek?! What's this?!
Where did those monsters come from?! Free yourselves at once!
My power has been infused in them both. I've now placed a powerful curse upon all the angels here.
Lord Luciel…? My powers are fading… kuh...
What?! Sister, undo the curse at once!
If you don't want your little friends fried then do as I tell you! If you can endure my challenge, I'll even release your sister!
Or would you just like to skip the pleasantries and leave them behind? Care to become a fallen angel like me, Luciel?
S-Sister, how could you! Kuh, this is so cowardly!
Hahaha, she's the Queen of Hell, of course she'll play dirty! So? What do you say?
Kuh… v-very well. I'll endure anything you have to throw at me! I'll make sure you free my sister and my friends!
And the scene that unveils before me is even hotter than I expected, making my dick tingle in excitement.
Kuh, why do I have to d-do something so humiliating… how is this fun to you?!
Luciel shifts around in embarrassment, her lower half sticking out towards me.
Lucifer sits on top of her, spreading her legs in the same fashion.
Look, my hag pussy is twitching in excitement, all ready to greet your dick!
Ahg, s-sister… kuh, this is so humiliating… is this good enough?!
Luciel keeps glaring at me in anger, though does as she's told.
Lord Luciel, we're so sorry...
The other angels can do nothing but watch, as they have had their powers sealed by the curse.
Kuh… d-don't worry about me! I won't give in to this humiliation! I won't yield!
Luciel, spread your legs wider so master can see! You have to entertain him properly, haah!
Haha, that's the spirit, hag! You should follow her example, Luciel!
W-Why do I have to do this… s-sister, this isn't normal… this is so embarrassing...
Hnng, as a slut what's unusual is going so many years without tasting dick! Look, spread your legs like this, oooh!
You have to show your slutty hole off properly! This should be obvious to any slut trying to entice a dick♪
Lucifer spreads her legs, shaking her ass at me.
Well don't make your sister do all the work! If you don't put in some efforts your friends over there will just suffer longer!
I start tightening the grip Tentaclo has on the angels.
Arrgh?! D-Don't mind us, hnng?!
Kuh, s-stop that! I-I got it, I'll do it! … H-Here, is this good? Hnng, haah...
Ahhh, what humiliation! I'm… hnng, haah… I-I can't believe I'm doing this.
Luciel's cute asshole twitches from the embarrassment.
Ahhg, the breeze tickles… I can't believe this… I can't believe this is happening… haah, haah...
Now we're talking, haha! That's one nice asshole! Much prettier than the hag hole over there!
Ahhn, m-my asshole has grown loose to fit your dick! It's just another sex toy now!
Sister… stop this! Stop saying such vile things, ugh… this is embarrassing enough as is.
Y-You, human! You've embarrassed me more than enough, haven't you?! Let my friends go!
Huh? We're just getting started! Look closely, this is what I'll do to you as well!
I get up behind Lucifer and jam my dick in her soaked pussy.
*Squelch!*
Ohoooo, so sudden♪ Thank you so much for your dick!
Lucifer lets out a howl as I enter her without warning.
W-What vulgar words! This isn't… normal at all! A-At least be more delicate about it!
Hahaha, you think this desperate hag has any delicacy left in her?! Look how much her pussy is sucking on my dick!
Hnnng, that's right! Haah, I'm just a sex toy that loves being fucked by this dick!
I can't slow down this dick no matter how much I try to squeeze, oooh! Haah, I love it so much, ohooo!
P-Please stop using such vile words… ahh, I've never seen someone look like that before…
Lucifer squirms around in joy, moaning like a bitch in heat.
Luciel, you're next! Say ‘please fuck my pussy!' for me!
What?! I-I can't… I can't say that!
Then you can just stay in my pussy, Master♪ That's what it's there for!
What good is that going to do!
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Ahh, I'm sorry, haaah, so rough♪ Your dick is pulling on my insides♪
Kuh… sister, I can't… but if I don't the angels won't be freed...
Luciel sends a worried glance over at her friends.
J-Just put that filthy thing in me already! P-Please just hurry up and end this!
What a terrible request! But all right, I guess I'll fuck you!
Oooh, your dick is leaving! Ahh, haah, noo~
I pull my dick out of Lucifer and move it over to Luciel's… asshole.
*Squelch!*
Hnnng?! Ahh, ahhg?! Th-That's… ahhg, how filthy… ahh!
My dick is covered in Lucifer's juices, so it goes in without too much trouble.
Ahhh, so tight! Now this is a hole with some potential!
Wait, stop it! That's not the right hole, ahhg, hnng!
Well you didn't specify where I should put it, so I picked the one you were spreading for me.
Hnnng, I wasn't… ooooh, stop pushing it deeper! Pull out, hnnng?!
Hnng, Master, if you want an ass-pussy you can use mine, haah...
Sister, what are you… ahhg, that's not the right place… that's such a dirty place, ahhg!
Each thrust makes the inside of Luciel's ass quiver pleasantly around my shaft, and the more she tries to resist the tighter she gets, which only makes me feel better.
You're the one who wanted it in this hole! Now loosen up and greet my dick properly!
Ahhg, I-I won't greet you! J-Just hurry up and finish… ahh, pull it out, hnng!
Since she's showing no signs of loosening up, I give her ass a nice smack.
*Smack!*
Hnnng?! Ohooo, oooh… w-what did you just do?! Haah, hnng!
Ahh, there we go, it's loosening up!
I start rocking my hips faster, stirring up her ass as she relaxes from the slap.
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Hnng, oooh! Ahhg, haaah! M-My butt is being violated, hnng?! My butt…?!
Haha, now those are some cute moans! Now I see that you two are sisters! You've gone super slut from just a couple of thrusts! Like that, huh!
Hnng?! I-I don't like it at all, haah?! S-Stop! Stop slapping… ahhn, haah, I can't believe this is happening!
*Smack! Squelch! Smack!*
Ohooo, ohooo, oooh! Hnng, ahh, this can't be happening, hnng, stop moving!
Luciel squirms around in desperation, though I keep a firm grip on her ass to make sure she can't escape.
*Smack! Smack! Smack*
Hnnng! What's… why… ahhn, stop moving, ohooo?!
Master, don't waste your time on that useless asshole! Come put your dick in my ass-pussy instead!
Hahaha, don't say that! This hole is pretty nice actually! Think she's getting used to it!
*Smack! Smack!*
Hnnnng! I am not, ooooh! My… my butt will never get used to your dick, ahh!
Ahhg, if you want to rape me just get it over with! There's no reason to hit my butt, hnng!
You still don't get your place, huh! It's not that I want to rape you, it's that you want me to rape you! Like this!
I pull my dick out of Luciel and move it back to Lucifer.
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Hnng, ohooo, that's it, right there♪ My hole is much better than my sister's, haah, ahhh!
I start stirring up Lucifer's soaked pussy, which has grown even hotter than before from watching me do her sister.
Hnng, my ass-pussy feels good too, but getting in the pussy is the best, oooh, ahh!
Haah, haah… ahh, s-sister, hnng… you don't have to say all that stuff, just let him get it over with!
Haha, you even forgot how to beg?! If you want my dick you have to learn how to ask right!
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Hnng, oooh, your dick is mad! Haah, please take your anger out on me and punish my pussy!
Ohooo, please use my hag pussy lots, hnng! Fill it up with semen before my eggs expire!
Ahh, please stop treating my sister that way… hnng, just do me instead!
I told you, I'm not fucking you until you learn how to beg properly! See, like this!
*Smack! Smack!*
Hnng, ohooo, please, more dick! Hnng, fuck my pussy harder! Lift up my womb with your dick!
Ahhg, don't mind my stupid sister, Master! Just focus on shooting your dick juices into my womb! Haah, hurry, it's dropping down for you!
Ahhg, haah, why do I have to do something so humiliating… kuh, sister… o-okay, please p-put that dick inside me...
I told you, you need to tell me where you want it! You want it back in your ass?!
I move my dick back into Luciel's asshole.
*Smack!*
Hnng, ooooh! It's in my butt again?! N-No, I don't want it there, haah, ahhh!
Shivers run up my spine as Luciel's tight ass clamps down on my dick.
Oh, I'm sorry, you want me to go harder?
*Smack!*
Hnnng, oooh, ahhh, s-stop hitting my butt… hnng, and stop moving, haah?!
Well then you have to tell me what you want me to put where! Teach this foolish human how to fuck you!
*Smack! Smack! Smack*
Hnng, oooh, i-if I don't endure this then my friends and my sister won't be saved… hnng, f-fine, I get it!
You get what?! You need to tell me!
Ahh, Master, don't mind my sister, please fuck me again instead!
Ahhg, God, p-please forgive me… ahhg, this isn't because I enjoy it, but to save everyone!
Hnng, p-please put your dick inside my pussy before I go mad… ahhg, just hurry up and end this!
It's not much compared to Lucifer's begging of course, but hearing it coming from Luciel gets me super excited.
*Smack! Squelch! Smack!*
Hnnng?! Ahhhhh! Ahh, haah, it's inside, ohooo, oooh!
Luciel's inner walls coil around my dick as I start stirring her pussy up from the get-go, watching a faint trail of red trickle down her crotch.
Ohooo, what… what happened?! Haah, ahhn, my body is trembling?! Hnng, it's twitching so much, ohooo!
Haha, you came from one thrust?! You're a big slut just like your sister, huh!
Cum?! What's that? I shouldn't… ahh, haah, I've never felt this before… ohooo?!
That means you climaxed, Luciel! I'm so jealous, haah… Master, please, give me your dick too!
C-Climax?! I couldn't have… ohoo?! Haah, ahh, i-it's messing up my pussy?!
Luciel's insides quiver furiously around my shaft, making for a different sensation from Lucifer's.
Hnnng, ahhh, why… haah, what's happening, ohooo, ahh?! Why does my body enjoy this!
Haha, you like that, do you?! Well we're just getting started! I'll make you love my dick more than your dumb God in no time!
Hnng?! W-Wait, wait! My womb can't take this! Please stop!
Hearing her say that only makes me move faster, of course.
*Smack! Squelch! Smack!*
Ooooh?! Hnng, stop it, I… can't hold back my moans, ahhh?! This can't be real! Why is my body enjoying this!
Climaxing for the first time seems to have left her body more sensitive than usual, as she's now trembling non-stop from the pleasure.
Hahaha, it feels nice fucking a slut that's younger than that hag! Your body is nice and firm!
Ohoooo! Haah, wait! Please, wait, hnng! Ahhg, my womb is dropping down!
Sure enough, I feel something soft suddenly press against the head of my dick, sending waves of pleasure through my shaft.
Hnng, the head is hitting my womb?! Oooh, y-you can't touch me there! Oooh, haah, hnng?!
Ahhh, his dick is coming to finish you off. Kuh, just thinking about it is making my pussy tremble!
Oooh, f-finish?! Noo! Ahhh, if he does that in my womb, I'll lose myself!
That's it! Throw away your God and be mine! I'll cum in your womb if you promise you'll get pregnant!
*Smack! Squelch! Smack!*
Hnnng, ahhh, m-my womb wants it?! I-It's a human's child, yet my womb is begging for it!
Don't spread it like that! I-I have God… ooh?! Y-Your dick is getting bigger inside me?! Haah, your semen is coming!
I start going in for the kill, thrusting as hard as I can.
I can stop if you don't want it! Just say the word and I'll pull out!
Pull out?! Your dick is leaving?! Oooh, nooo, don't!
Luciel's pussy desperately tries to keep a firm dick on my dick to prevent me from leaving.
I-I'll be yours! Haah, please impregnate me! Ahhh, I-I want to get pregnant!
After hearing those words my entire body becomes dominated by a single urge to ejaculate inside this woman.
Very well, I'll cum inside you! Open your womb and take it! Get pregnant!
Haaah, ahhh, I'm yours! I'm yours, so please, semen! Ohooo, I want it, haah!
Ahhg, forgive me my Lord! You just can't beat this dick, oooh! My womb wants it so bad, it's opening up, hnng!
*Spluuurt! Spluuurt! Psssh!*
Ahhhn?! Ooooh, cumming?! I'm, haah, cumming! Ahh, oooh, haah!
A large amount of semen starts gushing into Luciel's pussy, marking her insides with my scent.
Hnng, ooooh! Ahh, I'm cumming… haah, ahh, cumming! Hnng, your semen is filling my womb!
Hnng, ahh, amazing… s-so this is how it feels to make a baby, oooh… ahhh, why couldn't God give me pleasure like this!
Luciel twitches non-stop, cumming hard from being creampied.
Hnng, now that I, oooh, know this pleasure I can never go back to Heaven, haah!
Haha, good, I'll keep showing you more fun stuff down here then! Here's some extra for you!
I push my dick deeper inside Luciel and relax.
*Tinkle, tinkle!*
Hnnng?! This is… pee?! Ahhn, I'm… oooh, I'm being peed in!
Luciel climaxes once again as my pee starts pushing the semen deeper inside her womb.
Ahhn?! I-I'm… ahh, being fertilized! I feel it, haah, I'm getting pregnant!
Ahhh, n-no way, hnng… d-did you really get pregnant before me?!
That's right, sister! I, haah, feel it in my womb, ohooo♪
Luciel howls in joy, trembling from the pleasure.
Wait, seriously? Did my dick really knock you up in one load?!
Hnnng, yes! I can feel it, haaah, your pee and semen fertilized me, haah!
Ahhh, kuh, M-Master! Bless me with a child too! Ahh, I can't believe my sister beat me to it… hurry, Master!
Hahaha, don't worry, I'll keep using both of you guys' holes until I'm satisfied!
I keep fucking the two until my arousal finally starts dying down…
Phew~ I already know the answer to this, but you admit defeat, right?
Haah, yes♪ I lost, ohoo! I'm your dick's slave! Haah, Master, I'm your sex toy!
A crest similar to the one on Lucifer appears above Luciel's crotch.
As for you, we're stopping here today. Your hag pussy can't take any more, it seems.
Ahh, y-yes, I'm sorry I couldn't get pregnant! Thank you so much for using my good-for-nothing hag pussy!
I creampied Lucifer over and over, but she wasn't able to get fertilized this time like her sister.
Still, she looks up at me in euphoria, semen dripping from her pussy.
Meanwhile, the group of angels who've just lied on the sidelines watching all of this suddenly call out to us.
Ahhh… so this is a human's power… I-I'll swear allegiance to you as well!
Ahhn, I can't believe I'm touching myself, but… ahh, give me dick too!
Haha, looks like both demons and angels are equally big sluts in the end!
No, it's just that your dick is too incredible for any woman to resist, ahhn♪
That's right, haah, I'm eternally grateful to this wonderful dick for impregnating me, ahhn, just look here~
Ohooo, watch us two sisters put on a show in your honor, Master, hnng!
*Spluuurt! Tinkle, tinkle!*
It's coming, haaah! Master, look! Ohooo, pee and semen are flying out for you!
Ohooo, watch, master! Ahhn, haah, watch our perverted water show!
Both semen and pee starts spraying onto the ground from the two sisters' pussies.
Hahaha! You two sure learn fast! That's what I like to see!
Ahhn, it's so embarrasing, but I can't stop! Please look closer, oooh! Watch my perverted pussy♪
I won't lose, sister! Oooh, it's coming! Master, watch my pussy squirt, ahhh!
*Spluurt! Spluuuurt!*
Hahaha, good, good! Hahaha!
Not only did I get my hands on Luciel that day, but the angels she brought with her too.
And so, I no longer had any enemies, in Heaven or in Hell.
So, you could say I'd obtained the power to take over the entire world if I wanted.
But, that doesn't interest me. I'm only interested in having fun with my sex toys.
That sure was easier than expected! Your sister went down in one thrust from my dick, just like you!
Ahhn, indeed, Master! Thank you for teaching my foolish sister the pleasure of your dick!
Here's my dance of appreciation… ohooo! Thank you for making my sister a sex toy like me, oooh, thank you♪
It can hardly be called a dance, as all she's doing is shaking her pussy around, scattering love juices across the floor.
I'm sure Luciel will serve you well as a sex toy!
Hahaha, I sure hope so! As long as she does her job well, I'll use her any time! And I guess it's time to get a certain something out of the way with you too.
Ahhn?! Ahh, M-Master, do you mean…?!
That's right! As a thank you for helping me break your sister, I'll knock you up too!
Ahh, ohoooo! Ahh, Master, thank you so much! I finally get to be knocked up by this dick!
Lucifer starts shaking her hips faster, shrieking in joy.
Ahhh, Master, p-please use me at once! Impregnate me, oooh! Please do me right here!
Hahaha, all right, but you better thank me!
I start thinking about a fun way to impregnate Lucifer.
I doubt your hag body will be able to keep up, so I'll do the moving!
Lift up your arms and stick out your ass! Don't worry about taking everything off, all I need is your pussy!
Ahh, okay~ How's this, Master?
I bring out my dick like a blade ready for battle, moving it over to Lucifer's sheathe.
Don't ask about every little thing! You're such a slow learning slut! Here, will this help you learn faster?
I grab Lucifer's horns and mount her like a steed.
*Squelch!*
Hnng, my horns?! Haah, thank you for c-coming to impregnate me!
Lucifer lets out a loud cry as her pussy starts squirming around my dick.
I just put it in, you're not getting pregnant yet! Your womb is nice and open for me, right?!
I pull her head side to side, using her horns as handles while I prod her womb with my dick again and again.
Hnng, i-if you pull on my horns that much my whole body will get too sensitive… hnng?!
Hnng, ohooo, your dick is prying my womb open, ohooo♪ It's wide open for you now!
Having her horn toyed with like that is definitely driving her crazy, but she still happily squeezes my dick with her pussy.
Ahh, haah, your dick is pulling down my womb, but it's still not coming fast enough! Hurry, hurry! Master's dick is here to impregnate you!
Hmph, what a useless hag body! Don't worry, I'll lend you a hand. I don't have all day!
I let go off her horn and slap her tits instead.
*Smack!*
Hnnng♪ Ohooo, oooh, I'm terribly sorry, Master! The pain is sending shivers down to my womb!
A red mark is left on her boobs, which jiggle back and forth from the impact.
You're troubling your owner by not getting pregnant! Stop enjoying yourself, hag!
*Smack! Smack! Smack*
Ohoooo, m-my boobs are going to come off! Hnng, they're going numb! Haah, I feel it all the way in my womb!
ahhh, my womb is getting ready♪ Hnng, my hag pussy has finally woken up!
Lucifer's womb starts chewing on the head of my dick as the pain from the slaps turn to pleasure in her head.
Ohooo, it's all ready for you, Master! My womb is ready, right in front of your dick!
Finally! What a slow pussy! Your sister had hers ready in no time!
*Smack!*
Hnng?! Oooh, I-I'm terribly sorry! B-But my useless pussy is finally ready, hnng!
From now on I'll be able to prepare it at will, so please, cover my womb in your sticky semen!
Hmph! Okay, prepare yourself then! I won't slow down until I cum!
I grab her horns again to brace myself, then start furiously relentlessly my hips.
*Smack! Squelch! Smack!*
Hnng, ohooo, ahh! So rough! Hnng, your dick is prying my pussy open!
Pleasure spreads through my dick as Lucifer's pussy desperately coils around my shaft.
Keep your womb open, you hear! I need direct access to your eggs!
*Smack! Squelch! Smack!*
Hnng, oooh, it's open, haah! Your dick is keeping it open, oooh! C-Could you slow down a little…?!
Ahhh, hnng, the head is spreading my womb! Haah, Master, your dick is being so rough! This is… hnng?!
Lucifer's soft butt smacks against me with each thrust.
Ohooo, haah, ahh, Master, y-you're being even more rough than normal… hnng, I can't move, ahhn?!
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
I move Lucifer like a puppet by holding her horns firmly, knocking against her womb again and again with my dick.
I told you, I'm not holding back today! I'm going to knock you up!
Oooooh, yes! Yes you did! Please knock me up! Impregnate my livestock pussy, ohooo!
Oooh, just thinking about having your baby is, haah, going to make me cum!
Lucifer starts shaking her ass along with my rough thrusting.
Ahh, haah, I want to get pregnant! I want your dick to knock up my slut pussy!
Well then keep that womb open! That's the only thing you're good for, so at least get that job done right!
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Hnnng, I will! I'll keep it open so you can, haah, impregnate me! Oooh, please fill me up with your semen!
Hnnng, my womb is tingling, haah! It's being pried open completely, haah! The head of your dick is going inside!
Stop getting off by yourself! It's time to get knocked up! Suck it up until then!
My dick pierces Lucifer's womb like a spearhead, sending intense pleasure through my shaft.
Hnng, I-I will! I'll get fertilized! Haah, please fuck my pussy lots more and knock me up, ooooh!
Lucifer's inner walls coil around my dick even tighter than usual, and the love juices around her opening turn to white foam coating my dick.
*Squelch!*
Hnng, ahh♪ Haah, my perverted pussy is going to break! Your dick is stirring me up, haah!
Lucifer rocks her own hips, desperately trying to keep up with my movements.
I'll stroke your dick lots more, oooh! So please, hnng, fill up my pussy with your semen!
Your pussy is way too slow! It took too long to finally get it going! What a useless hole!
*Smack! Squelch!*
Ohooo, my useless hag pussy is going to cum, s-so hurry! Hnnng, I'll drink it all!
Haha, now we're talking! Keep that up and I'll fill up your womb!
Hnng, it's hitting my womb over and over! I can't escape, haah, it's going so deep!
I push my dick one step deeper inside of Lucifer's womb, forcing it open.
*Squelch!*
Hnng, ohooo, i-it's inside! Haah, your dick is coming to touch my eggs directly, haah! Right there, ohooo!
The inside of Lucifer's womb quivers around my dick, confused at the unfamiliar sensation.
Ooooh, Master, please! I-I'm going to cum! Hnng, hurry up please, before I cum!
haah, ahhg! Haah, I want it! Please, I want your semen! Fertilize my ancient pussy for the first time!
My mind is dominated by a single primal urge—to impregnate the woman in my arms.
Ahhh, here it comes! I'll knock you up and turn you into a pregnant sex toy!
Yes, please make me a pregnant sex toy♪ Ohooo, I want to feel my pregnant stomach jiggle while I service you! Haah, right there, oh great dick!
Fill me with your sticky dick juices! Impregnate me with your incredible dick juices, Master! Ohoooo!
*Spluurt! Spluuuurt!*
Haah, ahhh, haaah, it's so hot! Hnnng, cumming, cumming, ohooo! I'm being knocked up!
Lucifer's body quivers as she climaxes from the taste of my semen.
Ohooo, it's filling my pussy, haah! I'm being impregnated! Ohooo, cumming!
Hnnng, it's filling my womb to the brim, haah! I'm cumming from being fertilized! Cumming!
My dick is enveloped by intense pleasure, and my orgasm seems to go on forever.
Hnng, there's even more coming, haah, ahhh! Master, there's so much, ooh, ahhhh, ohooo?!
Ahhh, haaah th-this is… oooh, I'm being fertilized!
As my ejaculation starts to die down, I'm left satisfied knowing I've knocked Lucifer up.
Haaah, M-Master, I-I've been impregnated… ahhn, haah...
Hahaha, I can tell! Is this because of your magic? I just know it worked for some reason!
Hnng, haah, yes that's right! I've been fertilized, ooh, ohooo!
Oooh, I'm so jealous Luciel got to taste this pleasure before me!
Lucifer's womb continues squirming around my dick in joy even after being fertilized.
Hnng, haah, I'm so happy, I don't know what to do with myself!
Haah, ahh, my eggs are moving around in my womb… haah, I-I've really been impregnated...
Hahaha, like I said, I got you in one load! You better thank me!
Ahhn, thank you… I can't express my gratitude with mere words! P-Please keep using me as a tissue to wipe your dick♪
I'm terribly sorry my hag pussy is covered in my hag juices! You can come wipe your dick on my face instead!
Haha, good idea! I'll take you up on that!
I get up in front of her and stick my dick in her face.
Haah, ahh, thank you so much, Master! Hnng, bring your dirtied dick over here, haah, mmhg!
I start rubbing my dick across Lucifer's face.
Haah, ahhh, this is making me fall in love with your dick all over again… hnng, thank you so much, haah♪
All kind of juices as well as some pubes get stuck to her face after I'm done wiping my dick on her.
Haha, good! It was a big pain in the ass knocking up such an old pussy, so you better be thankful!
Ahhn, haah, yes, I could never leave your dick covered in my old, stinky juices! Lending my face as a tissue is the least I could do, hnng♪
I need to do something more to show my gratitude… haah, Master, let me show my gratitude!
Lucifer bows down deeply and starts licking my feet.
Mmmhg, haah, I can't stop moving my tongue… sllrp, mmwah, Master! Slllrp, sllrp!
Her warm tongue runs across my feet, enveloping them in ticklish pleasure.
Thank you so much for, slllrp, impregnating such a useless old hag like me, sllrp, thank you!
Good to hear you know your place! I'll keep knocking you up lots from now on! I expect equally good displays of gratitude each time!
Haah, what incredible kindness! To think I get to experience this joy more than once! Slllrp, mmwah!
Mmmhg, haah, I can't stop moving my tongue… sllrp, mmwah, master! Slllrp, sllrp!
The pleasure from Lucifer's tongue licking my feet starts spreading up to my dick.
I need to use the toilet after knocking up your hag womb. Oh, look at that, there's a toilet right here!
*Tinkle, tinkle!*
Hnnng, haah, ahh, thank you so much! Haah, what bliss!
Shivers run through Lucifer from pure joy of being peed on.
hnnng, haah, haah, just feeling your pee on me is, haah, making me so horny, ohooo!
Hahaha, are you cumming from being peed on?! Maybe this is another good method of getting that hag womb ready to be fertilized!
Haah, ahh, yes! Next time you want to impregnate me, hnng, just use me as a toilet!
Just smelling your pee, ohooo, i-is enough to get my womb ready, ohooo!
A new wave of shivers run through Lucifer, most likely from picturing being impregnated again.
Ahh, haah, even now that I am pregnant, I can feel my womb preparing again, haah!
Lucifer simply lies on the ground trembling in joy as my pee showers the back of her head.
With that, Lucifer got knocked up just a few days after her sister.
I'll let you service me this time! You better be grateful! I'm letting a mere sex toy take charge!
Lucifer's eyes sparkle with joy.
What an incredible honor! Words cannot describe my gratitude! Please wait one moment, Master!
Lucifer starts taking off her clothes and pushes me down on the floor.
Thank you for giving me another chance despite having lost to my sister in the race to getting pregnant!
She's already breathing heavily in excitement, and I can literally feel her gratitude through our connection from her crest.
I'll service you lots and make you cum so you can impregnate me once and for all!
You sure sound confident! You better get pregnant from this, hag!
Of course. I will pleasure you so much your semen won't be able to stay in your balls for long!
That sounds fun. Show me what the Queen of Hell can do!
Yes, leave it to me! Haah, I can't wait to become a pregnant sex toy!
I only have one request for you, if I may, Master. I hear animals get excited from sniffing their partner's behind.
So, I'd like to prepare my hag womb by servicing your ass, if you'll allow it!
All right, how's this?
I stick my ass in Lucifer's face.
Hnng, haah, th-this is making my, slllrp, useless hag womb heat up, sllrp, mmwah!
Lucifer wastes no time, instantly sticking her tongue into my ass.
Mhhg, sllrp, mmwah, I'm drowning in your smell, Master! Sllrp, I'm getting so horny, mmwah!
Make sure you get a good taste so your womb is nice and ready for my dick!
Mmmhg, ahh, of course, slllrp, mmwah, sllrp! Mmwah, sllrp...
Ahhn, sllrp, mmwah, this bitter taste is just heavenly… my womb is getting ready, sllrp, mmwah!
Lucifer doesn't even flinch, happily licking my ass all over.
Mmwah, sllrp, hnng, mmwah, ahhh, so delicious, sllrp, mhhhg!
You're ready by now, right? At this point you're just enjoying yourself hag!
Mmmhg, ahh… y-yes, I'm terribly sorry!
I slap Lucifer's face with my dick to make her snap out of it.
Haah, I'm sorry, I got carried away licking your ass.
Lucifer bows her head apologetically after being slapped by my dick.
Thanks to your help I'm now ready, Master♪ Please enjoy my service and cum lots in my womb.
Then I'll get pregnant, at last! Just thinking about it is...! H-Hurry, Master♪
What do you mean hurry, you're the one who's supposed to service me. Get started already, hag!
I slap Lucifer's cheek with my dick a couple of more times, which makes her bow even deeper.
*Smack!*
Ahhn, y-yes, of course! Well then Master, please lie down and leave the rest to me.
Lucifer gets on top of me, spreads her wings and changes her outfit with her magic.
Her clothes are replaced by a maid outfit, though the design is more perverted than a normal maid uniform.
Excuse me, Master, ahhn, i-it's going in… hnng, haah! I might be useless at everything else, but please enjoy your sex toy maid's service♪
Lucifer flashes a lewd smile as my dick enters her, straining the chains tied to her nipples as she stars moving.
The maid outfit makes her look pretty different from normal, which I found quite arousing.
I'll, haah, use everything I have as your perverted sex toy to service you, Master!
You actually look a lot younger wearing that!
Young?! Ahhn, what a compliment, ohoooo?! Ahh, hnng!
Lucifer arches her back, flapping her wings around in pleasure.
I-I'm sorry, my pussy felt too good, haah… I lost my composure for a second. Please forgive me, Master♪
But as you can see I'm able to service you even with my hands behind my head, so please enjoy, Master!
Haha, it's okay, your pussy got nice and tight when you were flapping your wings around. It felt pretty good!
Ahh, thank you for the compliment! I'll do my best to keep pleasing your dick… hnng, ohooo!
Oooh, hnng, haah, your dick is going so deep… it's coming to knock me up, ohooo♪
Lucifer happily rocks her hips, her wings flapping around behind her.
Haah, it's going so deep, haah! That's it, Master, that's where my womb is, all ready to be knocked up, ohoo♪
It's been prepared already, so you can fill it up with your s-semen whenever you'd like, hnng!
*Twitch, twitch!*
Lucifer starts twitching, probably from thinking about being impregnated.
Hnnng, p-pardon me, haah… I-I'll tighten up my pussy and, haah, start moving, hnng!
Still trembling, Lucifer starts moving up and down somewhat awkwardly.
Hnng, I'll use everything I have, oooh, to stroke your dick lots and make it happy!
How does, oooh, my pussy stroking feel for your dick? Hnng, ohooo!
Shivers of pleasure run through my crotch from Lucifer's service, though it's not nearly enough yet.
This isn't nearly enough! You might look younger, but you're still a hag deep down! Move faster!
Hnnng, ooh, I'm terribly sorry! Ohooo, I'll start moving faster… haah!
*Squelch! Squelch! Squelch!*
Oooooh?! How's this? Hnng, haah, I'll use my whole body, even my wings to help me stroke your dick!
More intense waves of pleasure start running down my shaft as Lucifer's movements hasten.
Ahhh, now we're talking! But you can do better than that! Show my dick what you can do!
Hnng, o-of course, how's this, oooh, ohooo♪ Hnng, I'm sorry, but I can't stop my perverted squeals, oooh!
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
It seems like having her wings out grants her some extra power or something, as she starts moving faster than any human could possibly muster.
Hnng, your dick is so fierce! My pussy won't stop drooling, haah! It's knocking against my womb!
I'll keep, haah, r-rubbing my womb against the head, haah, ahhh!
Lucifer pushes down her hips, pressing her womb against the head of my dick.
Now my pussy will stroke the shaft, haah, while my womb sucks on the head, ohoo!
That's it! This is how you service a dick! I'll reward you by helping you out, hag! Time to knock you up!
I reach out and grab the chain attached to her nipples, then pull on it as I start thrusting.
*Smack! Squelch! Smack!*
Hnnng, s-sorry to make you help out, haah! Oooh, my womb is, hnng, going to break! My nipples too♪
My balls start tingling from the pleasure, sending shivers up my spine.
I'm training your tits for when you get pregnant! You'll be lactating, so you need to get used to this type of stimulation!
Hnng, thank you so much, haah! My body is getting used to being a mother already, hnng!
Don't stop moving, keep going, hag!
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Hnng, of course! Haah, so rough, hnng! I'll keep stroking your dick with my hag pussy, ohooo, it feels so good!
Please enjoy my perverted maid service, hnng, and cum lots inside me, haah! Right there!
The intense pleasure makes me flinch for a second, though I push through, continuing to stir up Lucifer's pussy as I approach climax.
Hnnng, that's making my womb feel so good♪ Haah, it wants to taste your semen so bad! Haah, my womb is burning up!
Master, deeper! Hnng, drive your dick in deep inside my hag pussy and knock me up!
I feel Lucifer's pussy open up to guide my dick deeper inside.
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
That's it, Master, i-it's going in my womb! Hnng, my womb has dropped down for you!
Hnng, your dick wants to go deeper… w-wait, haah, y-you'll open… ahh, you're opening my womb!
You're clearly asking me to come in!
The urge to ejaculate starts building up in my dick as I rub the head against Lucifer's womb.
Hnng, haah, ahhh, your dick is going in! I-If you cum there I'll get pregnant!
Don't stop! Keep stroking my dick like that and I'll cum! I'll knock you up!
I will! I'll keep stroking your dick until the end! I'll move my wings to help too! Please knock me up! Fill me with semen, hnng!
Lucifer desperately flaps her wings, sending tremors through her pussy like a vibrator.
hnng, ooh, hurry! Cum in my pussy and, hnng, make my pussy into a pregnant sex toy!
Ahh, that's it! Fine, I'll knock you up you slutty maid! Get pregnant!
I will! This is what I've lived so long for♪ I finally get to be knocked up by a dick!
Ohooo, cumming, cumming! I'll cum before I get pregnant! Ahh, it's coming! Your semen is coming!
*Spluurt! Spluuuurt!*
hnng, oooh! Oooh, ohooo, so hot, haah! Cumming! I'm getting pregnant, haah! Cumming, ahh!
Lucifer starts cumming right before my semen enters her, and a fierce spray of love juices shoots out from her pussy.
Haah, ahh, your sticky semen is, hnng, filling up my womb, oooh! It's clinging to my insides!
Ahhh, my womb feels t-too good, hnng! I won't be able to stop cumming Master!
Lucifer's pussy quivers fiercely around my shaft, sucking the semen out of my dick.
Hnnng, ahh, oooh, h-hurry up and fertilize me, haah, I-I need your semen deeper, hnng!
Fine, I'll push it in deeper for you, hag!
I shove my dick in deeper in Lucifer's pussy, then start peeing.
*Tinkle, tinkle!*
Haaah, ahhh, I-I'm getting pregnant, ohoooo! It's going so deep, ahh, haaah!
Lucifer freezes up as my pee starts pushing the semen further inside her.
Haah, ahhh, your pee is pushing it in! Ohooo, I'm getting pregnant, haah! Thank you, Master!
Oooh, ahhh, now I'll be a pregnant sex toy as well… haah, ahh♪
Hahaha, you look ridiculous! Don't just get off by yourself, keep thanking me!
Of course! Hnng, thank you so much for knocking up my hag pussy, hnng, oooh♪
Lucifer's pussy quivers around my dick, sending ticklish pleasure through my shaft.
Ahhh, that's it, be a good toilet~
Leave it to me, your pregnant maid♪ Hnng, I'll drink it all up, haah! I won't spill a drop♪
And with that, Lucifer got knocked up just like her sister.
Of course, not much changed in how I go about my days after knocking her up.
Now, nearly a year later, there's really only one thing that's changed.
Lucifer's pregnant belly.
Master, if you're bored, please watch this pregnant sex toy dance for you!
Lucifer shakes her large pregnant belly around.
Hnng, I'll do my best to put on a perverted dance fitting for someone of your standing, Master. You're a god now, after all! Ohooo!
After the various feats I've performed over the past year my status has been upgraded from a legendary hero to a literal god.
Luciel and her Angels definitely helped achieving that status too, not just Lucifer.
You get to be watched so closely by him?! I'm so jealous, sister! Master, please use me soon too!
Another ass is stuck in my face as Luciel walks over.
Haha! Don't worry, I'll use you later! But for now, I'll keep enjoying this hag's slutty dance!
Yes! Please enjoy this pregnant sex toy's perverted dance my Lord!
Lucifer's pussy twitches greedily as she dances around.
Phew, that's not nearly enough to entertain me! This is how a sex toy like you should be used!
I take out my dick and shove it out in front of her.
Use those pointlessly big tits and rub the cum out of my balls! And Luciel, you be a chair!
Of course! I'd love to♪
Hnng, haah… okay, I'll use my boobs, hnng, and clean your dick with them!
Lucifer wraps my dick in her big tits with a lewd smile on her face.
Hnng, I'll make sure to do a good job to not disappoint you, Master♪ I'll leave his ass to you, Luciel!
Lucifer calls down to the chair below me while she envelops my dick with her tits.
Of course, sister! Sllrp, , what a wonderfully strong scent, Master! Slllrp!
Luciel sticks her face between my ass, happily licking it with her tongue.
Ahh, that's nice. Hag, keep stroking my dick with those tits.
Of course! Haah, thank you so much for using this pregnant hag sex toy, hnng♪
Lucifer starts moving her breasts up and down my shaft.
Sllrp, mmwah, hnng, mmhg, sllrp!
Meanwhile her sister runs her tongue all around my asshole.
I'll clean up your dick nicely with my boobs, haah… hnng, I'll make it nice and hard, haah♪
My shaft is enveloped by the soft touch of her large breasts, which soon start being covered in pre-cum.
Ahhhn, haah, what a wonderful scent! Hnng, please enjoy yourself lots more, Master♪
If you want me to enjoy myself then start squeezing out some milk, hag! This isn't enough!
I slap her tits hard.
*Smack! Spluurt!*
Ohooo, o-of course, I'll lactate lots, hnng, ohoooo!
This is something I've been enjoying ever since Lucifer started lactating.
Her warm milk starts spilling onto my shaft, making my dick feel more sensitive.
Haah, that's more like it! Keep it coming!
*Smack! Smack! Spluuurt!*
Hnnng, okay! Haaah, here's some more, ahhn! I'll shoot out lots on your dick, haah♪
I'll drown it in milk, haah, and make it feel even better! Haah, my tit-pussy is being violated!
This is a loose pussy in that case! Try harder, hag!
*Smack!*
Hnng, I'm sorry! I'll try my best to squeeze my hag tit-pussy for you, so please enjoy♪
Lucifer smiles and starts squeezing her breasts firmly around my shaft.
*Squelch! Squelch! Squelch!*
Haaah, ahhh, your dick is so hard, haah! Please enjoy my milk! Enjoy it before the baby is even born, ahhn!
Her big tits even envelop my balls, sending tingling pleasure through my crotch.
*Sllrp, mmwah, hnng, mmhg, sllrp!
Meanwhile, Luciel is still going to town on my asshole.
The head is getting bigger, haah! This is proof your dick is enjoying itself♪
I'll make your dick even warmer with a mix of milk and pre-cum, haah♪
*Squelch! Squelch! Squelch!*
Haha, you're getting better, but this still isn't enough!
Haah, ahhh, just the smell of your dick is making my nipples hard! I'll work hard to make your dick feel even better!
Lucifer starts rocking her tits up and down.
Please show me how fast and tight you want me to do it with your lovely tit slaps, haah, haah♪
You just want me to slap you, don't you, hag! Though, I do like that idea so why not! Keep moving like that!
*Smack! Smack! Smack!*
Hnnnng! Very well! I-I'll remember this speed and pressure, ohooo!
*Squelch! Squelch! Squelch!*
The stimulation from the two different sources sends intense pleasure through my whole body.
hnng, ohooo, your dick is getting harder, haah! It's twitching, hnng, please rape my tits harder!
Hnng, it's rubbing my nipple piercings! My head is going blank! M-More! Harder, haah!
Lucifer starts moving her tits even faster, sending shivers up my spine.
Ahhhn, the head is rubbing my nipples, oooh! Please enjoy, Master!
Haah, go faster! Keep going until I cum, hag!
*Smack! Smack! Smack!*
Ahhn, I will! Haah, hnng, I'll make sure to stroke your dick from the bottom to the tip with my boobs, haah!
So please cum inside my tit-pussy♪ Cover my boobs in your hot semen, Master!
*Squelch!*
She starts focusing on rubbing the head, trying to finish me off.
Ahh, I'm going to cum! I'll allow you to cum too! Here it comes, I'll creampie your tits!
*Smack! Smack! Smack!*
Yes, I'll cum too! Together♪ Hurry, cover my boobs in your semen! It's hitting my weak point!
Hnng, ahh, my nipples are tingling! Haah, I'm shaking♪ Haah, hurry Master, before I cum! Let's do it together!
*Spluurt! Spluuuurt!*
Hnng, ahhh, haaah! There's so much! Ooooh, my boobs are cumming! Cumming!
A large amount of semen sprays onto her tits and face as we both climax in unison.
I'm covered in semen! More, ahh, cum lots more on my boobs♪
Ahhh, haah, ahhh♪ Your dick is trembling! More, haah, cover me in more! It's clinging to my skin!
Phew, keep squeezing it all out!
Her boobs feel totally different from a pussy, and a less intense, ticklish pleasure spreads through my shaft.
Hnng, I will! There's so much, ohooo! It's on my face, haah, my head is spinning!
Hnng, ohoo, just the smell is making me cum again♪ Master, haah, my boobs are cumming again!
Lucifer arches her back, trembling fiercely as she climaxes.
Haah, haah… ahh, M-Master, haah...
Lucifer starts gently caressing my sensitive dick with her tits, breathing heavily.
Slllrp, ahhh, some semen dripped down here too, mmhg, ahhn♪ Slllrp!
Luciel happily licks up some of the drops of semen that drip down on her from above.
Ahhh, haah, that's it, keep licking it up.
Yes, of course, I'll clean it up. Mhhg, ahh, thank you so much for cumming this much♪
Hmph. You better train that hag pussy to at least suck out this much when I fuck you!
Ahhn, I will! I'll train my pregnant sex toy pussy for you♪
Haaah, I swear I'll keep milking lots and lots of semen from your dick from now on, Master♪
*Squelch!*
A mix of semen and breast milk drips from Lucifer's tits.
The sight is incredibly arousing, not feeling dirty at all to me.
Ahhn, I can feel you, hnng! I can feel your dick's pheromones! Mmhg, slllrp!
Ahh, I'm sad that I've cleaned your dick already. Please order me to service you more, Master♪
Hnng, let me keep polishing it until it's sparkling clean, Master!
Of course, I continued having my way with the both of them lots more after that.
Since I'm known as a legendary hero and a god now, people flock around me the second I walk through the streets.
The heroic god is here! L-Look! Ahh, h-his dick looks mighty as always, hnng...
Now that I have all these titles and what not, I make sure to wear fancy clothes whenever I'm out among people.
Hahaha, I hope you're doing well people! I'm doing great, as you can see!
Ooooh, o-open the way for the demon lord! Hnng, oooh, ohooo!
And hanging in front of me skewered by my dick is a certain fallen angel, squirming around in joy.
Her limbs are all tied up in a pocket dimension, making her sway defenselessly in front of me.
Oooh, ahh, a-all hail my great master! Hnng, the only one worthy of ruling over you all, ohooo!
Her, what's with all the talking, you're just a cock sleeve!
I squeeze Lucifer's tits hard while I thrust forward.
Both her nipple and clit piercings jiggle, making Lucifer twitch in surprise.
Hnnng, I feel it all the way up my pregnant stomach! Ohhh, I'm terribly sorry, M-Master♪
I'm sorry guys, thanks for cheering for me! I'm here to protect you all, so don't worry!
Ahhh, please use me as your cock sleeve too!
Make me your cock sleeve!
All the women I pass on the street start rushing up to me in excitement, though Lucifer quickly shoos them off.
Hnnng, n-no! I'm his one and only cock sleeve! It's my job!
I'm the one who's here to protect his dick! I'll be his protector forever, ohooo!
Lucifer desperately rocks from side to side to please me.
Hahaha, good, good! This much is the least I expect from my cock sleeves, so you better keep that up!
The various cries of the women begging me to make them mine are all drowned out by Lucifer's perverted moans.
Hnng, ohoooo, ahhh, I will! As your pregnant cock sleeve, I'll do my very best to please you♪
I'll be your cock sleeve forever, hnng! P-Please keep using me!
You guys see this? This job can only by done by the most pathetic creatures! Like this hag!
Hnnng, I'm the worst♪ I'm the perfect fit for a cock sleeve!
Ahhh, I'm a pregnant sex toy that's spreading her stinky juices all over from being fucked by this dick♪
Look how perverted she looks… I can't make a face like that. Guess she really is fitting for him...
The girls watching drop their shoulders in disappointment.
Hnng, ahh, that's right, I'm the only hole worthy and pathetic enough for this dick!
Haah, I'm a pregnant sex toy that doesn't feel any shame in scattering her juices all over in public♪
Lucifer's pussy tightens up around my shaft as she shows off to the crowd.
Master, let's show them lots more♪ Let's show them how perverted your cock sleeve is!
Hahaha, you just get off by being watched and you know it!
I take another step forward, thrusting as hard as I can.
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Hnnng, that's right! I'm just a perverted cock sleeve, I'm sorry! Hnng, ooooh, so rough!
Milk starts shooting out of Lucifer's nipples as I begin stirring up her pussy.
Ahhh! Oooh, it's coming! Haaah, I feel so good, my milk is coming! Oooh, I can't stop!
Look at this masochist spilling her precious breast milk around like this! Isn't she the worst!
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Hnng♪ My milk won't stop! Each thrust is making more of my milk come out!
Ohooo, forgive me~ Hnng, I-I'm a cock sleeve first and foremost, so I'm using my milk to please this dick!
*Spluuurt!*
Bursts of milk continue spraying out of Lucifer's tits, while her pussy coils around my dick.
Hahaha, keep going! You want me to fill you up with cum, right?!
Thanks to her arms and legs being teleported somewhere else, it's even easier to move her around as a sex toy now.
I do, haah, semen! Ohooo, my pussy is starved for semen! I want your dick juices!
I won't spill a single drop, I promise! Please enjoy my pussy's dick stroking and cum inside me!
Each step I take sends another wave of pleasure through me as my dick moves through Lucifer's tight pussy.
Hnng, I feel it all the way up my head with each thrust! Haah, my pussy is going to break! Haah, I love this!
Who cares if you like it or not! Just do what I tell you to make my dick feel good! That's your job!
*Smack! Squelch! Smack!*
I keep relentlessly stirring up Lucifer's pregnant pussy.
Hnnng, of course♪ Stir me up any way you want! Haah, ahh, I'll die~ I'm dying!
Your big dick is, haah, coming to kill me! Hnng, ahh, it's messing up my pregnant pussy♪
Large amounts of love juices and breast milk spill onto the ground below.
Pleasure surges through my dick as I'm pushed closer and closer to climax from the constant stimulation.
Time to finish off the previous Demon Queen with a load of cum! I'll send you to Heaven with a creampie!
Ahhn, please do! Hnnng, finish off my cock sleeve pussy with your mighty dick!
Hnng, I can't wait! My pussy is, ohooo, tightening up! It's, haah, going to cum before you!
Lucifer shakes from side to side as her pussy tightens up around my shaft.
Ahh, right there! That feels so good! Right there, haah, before I cum, Master!
What a greedy sex toy you are! Fine, I'll cum, so keep that womb open for me!
*Smack! Squelch! Smack!*
Hnnng, your dick is going inside! Hnng, haah, fill up my pregnant pussy so I get even bigger!
Ahh, haah, all the way inside! Hnng, I can't get pregnant again, yet I want it! I'm going to cum from being creampied, ohooo!
*Spluurt! Spluuuurt!*
Hnng, ohooo! Haah, cumming! Hnng, ahh, it's filling my pregnant pussy! Cumming, ahhh!
*Spluuurt!*
Ohooo, it's coming! Cumming! I'm squirting and lactating! I-I can't stop, ohooo! Cumming, ahh, cumming!
Lucifer twitches furiously as my semen invades her pussy.
Hnng, cumming! I love your semen! Oooh, it's going so deep into my stomach! I-I love it so much, I want it all to myself!
Ohooo, I can't stop! Haah, being a cock sleeve is the best! It's coming! It's going to leak out! I'll wet myself again!
Another spray of clear juices shoots out from Lucifer's pussy.
Hey, stop dirtying the place with your filthy hag juices! Here, I'll fill you up with some more, so make sure you keep it inside!
I drive my dick deeper inside her pussy, then start peeing directly into her womb.
*Tinkle, tinkle!*
Ahhhh, haaah, pee! I-I won't spill it, hnng! I-It's mixing with the semen!
Lucifer gazes up at me in euphoria as my pee starts filling the depth of her pussy.
Ahhg, haah, I'll drink it all, hnng! Thank you so much for the pee!
You're too late at thanking me, hag! You should have started thanking me for using this worn-out hag pussy from the start!
Yes, thank you for using my hag pussy as a cock sleeve♪ I-I'm so happy, oooh! The baby is kicking in joy too!
Ohooo, I-I'm going to cum from your pee again… is that okay, Master? I can't stop it!
Lucifer starts twitching before I even answer, and her pussy tightens up as she climaxes.
What a useless hag you are!
Ahhhn, haah, your pee felt too good, I can't help it♪ Hnng, I'm cumming from your pee again!
She's enjoying herself a little too much as a sex toy meant for my enjoyment, but since she is keeping all the pee inside like requested, I let it slide.
A mix of Lucifer's moans and the onlooker's cheers continue filling the area as I make my way through the streets.
I'm pretty happy just living like this forever, but there's of course some morons out there who will try to get in the way of that.
My Lord, foreign armies have started positioning itself on the outskirts of our borders! They're clearly here with malicious intent!
One of my many advisors who run most of the boring political stuff comes rushing into my chambers.
There's still morons out there who insist on ruining my day, huh. And here I was feeling good from a nice fuck.
Hnng, ahh, haah, ohooo♪
The report comes seconds after I finish having my way with my two sex toys.
I'll assemble our forces at once and send them out to defend!
Wait! I'll go by myself. I'm the savior of this land after all, I need to show off once in a while.
I casually wave off the advisor's suggestion.
A-Are you sure, my lord?
Yes, I'll teach them a lesson. You just tell the people that everything will be okay!
The advisor bows and leaves the room as I call out to the panting sex toys next to my feet.
Get up, cock sleeves! Go fuck up the morons who decided to spoil my good mood!
Ahh, haah, ahh, very well, Master! L-Luciel, get up! It's time to prove our worth!
The girls both rush to their feet and start preparing.
Thanks to their powers it doesn't take long to prepare things the way I want them, and we soon arrive in front of the opposing armies.
As the soldiers see me and the stage we've prepared appear out of nowhere, they rush to their feet and prepare for battle.
Who the hell are you?! Everyone, get ready! Capture them!
Haha, I'm so scared~ So you guys are here to try and take over my country, huh.
Don't look at me like that! What, is it that strange bringing a couple of slutty pigs to the battlefield?!
I look down at Lucifer and Luciel, who are strapped to the stage.
Hngg, oiink, haaah!
O-Oiink! Oiink, oiiink!
Their legs are tied up, and they have nose hooks attached to their noses, making them really sound like real pigs.
Milk machines are attached to their giant tits, sucking out their breast milk.
Hahaha, you can talk, I'll allow it!
Oiink♪ Haah, I won't forgive these fools for turning their bloodlust at you, Master! Oiink!
They're here ready to fight normally, hnng, then we show up like this turning them on, oiink!
Hnng, b-but who cares! Master, please taste my milk, oiink♪
Please let me feed you my young breast milk, iink! Hnng, oooh!
What the hell is going on?! Stop fucking around! Kill them!
Show these lunatics our strength!
Battle cries start spreading through the enemy forces, but I don't care at all.
Phew, these morons are almost as loud as you slutty pigs! Fine, I'll give you guys dick if you clean these morons up first, you hear?!
Yes! Got it, Master! Haah, I'll smite down all these foolish humans getting in your way!
Of course, master! I'll show these dumb ants the wrath of hell!
Still strapped to the stage, the girls both start using their power.
In the name of the Demon Queen Lucifer I command thee to strike down my foe!
Smite these fools with justice from above!
Black and white pillars appear on the battlefield, sweeping through the opposing armies.
In the next moment, the whole area is enveloped in darkness.
W-What?! Where did my forces go?!
Don't worry, they were just knocked about a bit, then sent to Hell and Heaven's prisons! They'll do fine work as my slaves from now on!
Master, we did it, oiiink! Please, reward us, oiink, oooh!
Ahhn, those fools are no longer on this plane. So please, M-Master! Oiiink!
The darkness fades from the area, leaving just me and my two slutty pigs.
Haha, good work! At least you two are good for something! All right, I'll reward you! Keep that milk coming!
I bring my dick to Lucifer's twitching pussy, piercing her while I start sucking on the tube connected to her breast pump.
*Squelch!*
Hnnng!Haah, ahhh, y-your dick is, haah, inside! My milk is coming out, oiink♪
*Spluuurt!*
The moment I thrust my dick inside her, milk starts shooting into my mouth.
Hnng, oooh, you're drinking my milk! Haah, I'm so happy… hnng, please drink lots, Master♪
Mmwah! Hmm, a little sweet. Not bad!
Oiink, oiink, oooh! I'll let out lots more sweet milk for you, so please keep stirring up my pussy, oiink!
Ahhn?! M-Master, come taste my milk too! My milk is much sweeter and tastier, oiink!
Oiiink, k-keep drinking my rich and mature milk instead, ohooo! I'll squeeze out lots, oiink!
*Spluuurt!*
Haha, that's it! Let's see how much milk this hag can squeeze out! Come on, keep it coming!
I keep stirring up the immobilized Lucifer, enjoying the pleasure of her pussy while I drink all the milk filling my mouth.
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Hnng, amazing! Ahh, more's coming out, oiink♪ Haah, it's coming! My pussy is leaking too, ohooo!
Keep going until, hnnng, you let out lots of semen in my pregnant pig pussy, haah!
You're one desperate hag! Your pussy is getting nice and tight!
Lucifer's pussy starts constricting around my dick with each thrust.
Hnnng?! Your big dick is, haah, messing up my pregnant pussy! K-Keep going, please, haah!
Ohooo! Stir me up, haah! Don't hold back, oiink! I want your dick milk inside me, oiink!
Thick love juices scatter around each time my dick moves through Lucifer's pussy.
Hnng, more, haah! Pry my slutty pig pussy open with your dick! Hnng, cumming, ohooo!
That reminds me, there's another hole that needs a reward too!
As Lucifer starts approaching climax, I pull out and move over to her sister.
*Squelch!*
Hnng, ohooo, your hot dick is finally here! Oiink, oiink, oiink!
Sweet milk fills my mouth while Luciel's pussy squeezes my dick tightly.
Haah, this is thinner than your sister's, but it's much sweeter and easier to drink!
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Haah, thank you very much! Your dick is being so rough, I love it, oiink!
You can be even rougher with my young pussy compared to my sister's! Ohooo, my pregnant belly is shaking around♪
I never thought about holding back in the first place, and simply keep thrusting as hard as I can.
Haah, ohooo, hnng, your hard dick keeps stirring me up, oiink! It's stirring up my slutty pussy♪
Oiink, oiink! Harder, oiink! Do my pussy harder than my sister's, oiink!
Luciel squirms around, begging for more.
Ahhh, tighten up more! You're not sucking hard enough! Gobble on my dick with your pussy like a real pig!
Hnnng, I will! I love your dick, oooh! I'll eat it lots with my pregnant pussy, oiink!
Luciel's pussy constricts firmly around my shaft, and she starts rocking her hips along with me.
Oooh, now you can't escape from my pussy! Let it out deep inside my pussy, please! Oiink!
Oooh, ahh, oiink! Your dick is so deep, ooh! It's hitting my womb, hnng, cum right there, ohooo!
Tingling pleasure runs through my shaft each time my dick knocks against Luciel's womb.
Right there♪ Your dick is hitting my womb! Shoot out your semen right there, Master!
You're not tight enough for me to cum yet! You have some things to learn from this hag pussy it seems!
I move my dick back to Lucifer.
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Hnng, w-welcome back, hnng?! Oiiink, ahh, my pussy is going to break, oiiink!
Lucifer instantly starts rocking her hips, desperately trying to make me cum.
Squeeze me tighter, pig! If you have time to breathe you have time to stroke my dick!
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Hnnng, I know, oooh♪ Ohoo, I'll keep stroking your dick until it cums, even if my pussy breaks, Master!
Please keep using me until then, oooh! And drink lots of my milk, hnng, haah!
Lucifer's body twitches form the pleasure, while her womb quivers against the head of my dick.
Ohooo, right there! Feed my slutty pig womb your dick juices, ohooo!
Hey, I'm not even close to finishing yet! I guess I'll go back to the younger slut again then!
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Hnnng, that's right, ohoo! You should use my pussy as a toilet and cum lots in me instead, hnng!
I instantly start thrusting relentlessly, enjoying the tight pressure of Luciel's pussy.
Ahhh, that's more like it! I can cum like this! Keep stroking my dick until I do, pig!
Haah, I will! Hnng, please cum deep inside my cum-starved pussy, hnng!
Hnng, I'll cum too, oiink,oiink! Oooh, my whole pussy is being stirred up, oiink, hnng, oooh!
Luciel starts twitching non-stop as she approaches climax, her pussy squeezing my dick so much it nearly hurts.
Now we're talking! Keep squeezing like that! I'm going to cum!
Right as I'm about to cum, I choose which hole to reward with my first load.
You'll have to wait, pig! Your sister gets it instead!
I pull my dick out of Luciel's quivering pussy, jamming it back into Lucifer.
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Hnnng, oooh, ahhh! Your dick is back, oiiink! Fill up my warm pregnant pussy with lots of semen please!
Oooh, your dick is opening the depth of my pussy! Right there! Fill up my slutty pig pussy! Cumming, cumming! Haah!
*Spluurt! Spluuuurt!*
Haah, ahh, semen! Hnng, ohooo, it's flowing inside me! I'm cumming, haah!
Lucifer climaxes hard as my semen fills her pussy, her body twitching violently.
Hnnng, ooh, ahh, cumming, cumming♪ Haah, your semen is coming in so hard! It's going to make me give birth faster at this rate!
Thank you so much for filling up my pregnant pussy! I feel it filling my womb♪ Your sticky semen is making me cum, oiink♪
Lucifer convulses non-stop as she climaxes again and again.
Ohooo, my slutty pussy is drinking it all, hnng! More! My pregnant pussy wants more, oiink!
Ohooo, I'm already pregnant, but I'll get knocked up again♪ I'll get pregnant again right away, haah, ahh!
After a while she finally stops cumming, going limp in her restraints.
Haah, ahhh… I-I want to give birth quickly so I can, haah, get pregnant again, ahhn, haah♪
Her large belly jiggles lightly as she breathes heavily, still lactating fresh milk for me to drink.
Ah, haha, your milk is getting sweeter! Did cumming make it like that?
I guess that makes you more of a slutty cow than a pig, huh!
O-Oiink, haah! I'll be both a slutty pig and a slutty cow for you, Master♪
Lucifer smiles blissfully from getting her new title.
I'll let out lots more sweet milk for you, so please keep feeding my pussy your thick semen, oiink♪
Haha, I guess that's not a terrible trade.
Master, me too! Knock me up more! Hnng, m-my pussy is still waiting for your semen!
Luciel calls out to me from the side.
I'm going to cum! Squeeze my dick tightly and I'll fill you up, pig!
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Hnnng, I will,ooooh! My womb is open and ready for your dick! Let's cum together, oiink, oiink♪
Hnng, cumming, cumming! Haah, my pregnant pussy feels so good, I'll cum before you! Master, hurry, ohooo, cumming!
*Spluurt! Spluuuurt!*
It's coming, haah, ahhh, I'm cumming! Ahh, my pussy is going to break, oiink, oiiink!
A large amount of semen starts filling up Luciel's pussy, which tightens up fiercely around my shaft.
Luciel's body starts trembling non-stop, her large belly shaking form side to side.
Hnng, oooh, ohooo, there's so much in my pregnant pussy! It's still coming! It's so hot, haah, so hot, oiink!
Haah, ahh, I'm cumming too much, oooh, I'll give birth! Hnng, ahh, this is too much! It's still coming! Oiink!
Hey, stop dirtying my dick in your filthy juices and let out some milk instead!
Ahhh, okay, I will, oiink! Haah, I'll lactate lots while I cum, oiiink!
*Spluurt!*
Luciel does what I tell her, and fresh waves of milk start spilling into my mouth.
Haaah, ahhh, haah! Ahh, M-Master… my pregnant belly is expanding even more, oiiink♪
You'd never think this girl is an angel with how perverted she looks right now.
hnng, haha, now we're talking, your milk is getting thicker!
It's because my pig pussy is reacting to your thick dick milk♪ Haah, I'll let out lots more, oiink♪
If you give me more thick dick milk, haah, and impregnate me again I'll be able to make even tastier milk for you, oiink♪
Master, I-I can make even better milk than my sister! P-Please, come feed my pussy too, oiink!
Lucifer desperately calls out to me from the side.
Haha, don't worry, I'm a nice master who feeds all his pigs! I'll have to see how thick I can make your milk too!
A few after having spent my time using both my slutty pigs thoroughly.
Bhhrg♪ Well, I've had lots of milk and fucked lots. Guess we'll call it a day there. Looks like people are showing up to check out how the fight went too.
I look down at my two sex toys.
Hnng, haah, oiink… oiink, oooh, thank you so much, oiink♪
Ohooo, oooh, Master, haah, oiink! Thank you… so much, oiink♪
The girls both shake their large bellies in joy, still spilling fresh breast milk all over the place.
Of course, their both covered in semen too.
I was supposed to be leading an army… uh, what just happened? Where did my soldiers go? Ahh… my head hurts...
I turn around and spot the soldier we left alive, who I had completely forgotten about.
Hey, sluts, there's one moron left here! Why don't you tell him what happened! He seems confused!
Oiiink, your foolish soldiers are all gone♪ You're mere pests to us, worth even less than the drops of milk spilled on the ground below our feet♪
L-Let this be a lesson to never turn your blade at our lovely master, you moron, oiiink!
Hahaha, I don't know if the girls squealing like pigs have the right to call anyone a moron, hahaha!
Oiiink, ahh, well, let's stop thinking about the enemy, Master! Oiink, please more dick!
Ahhh, master, you're so kind! P-Please, fill up my pussy with more semen! I'll please you lots more, oiink!
The girls don't even bother looking at the last surviving soldier and start begging for more dick instead.
After the news of an entire army being blown away by me, my name once again spreads around the entire world.
There's one thing that bothers me after the fight, though.
How come those fools came to invade us when they already knew about your guys' power?
That's because the god they pray to is different from ours. Faith can make people do crazy things.
They must have come here to take down what they see as a false god, in the name of their own.
Wait, so there's more than one god? So, there's a chance some other god's followers shows up next? What a pain in the ass.
Don't worry, no matter how many foolish gods oppose you, the two of us will repel them!
Well, that's true. But how about we just skip the waiting and bring the fight to them. Let's take over the whole world!
Ahh, of course! If you want that, we will make it happen, Master!
Lucifer doesn't even flinch at the idea.
I will make the rest of the pantheon kneel before you before I give birth, Master, I swear!
And so, we start traveling around the world to do just that.
Apparently, having been impregnated with my child only made Lucifer's powers grow, making her even stronger than most gods.
Let me congratulate you! You're the last goddess not yet under my master's domain!
H-How could a mere demon possess such power…?!
With the last goddess within reach, I've now obtained complete control over the world and the pantheon of gods and goddesses that used to rule over it.
Now every last god and living being on this planet has devoted themselves to our master's cause.
Lucifer claps her hands, and the goddess as well as her followers all kneel at once.
This is all thanks to your power, Master! These are all your new servants!
Haha, looks like some fun new familiars to enslave!
All the goddess' familiars are complete beauties with various non-human traits, making for a large variety of sluts to choose from.
Of course, Master! Anything you want!
Hahaha, good work, Lucifer! Hehe, I guess I'll give you the honor of pleasuring me first, before anyone else!
Ahhh, what an incredible honor! Let me offer this dance of appreciation!
Lucifer takes off her clothes and starts dancing, her large belly jiggling around while she spreads her legs wide.
This dance is dedicated to you, Master, the one who rules Heaven, Hell and everything in between! Please enjoy♪
Lucifer lifts her arms in the air while she rocks her hips around lewdly.
She's practically drooling in excitement, gazing at me with an aroused stare.
Everyone watching, ohooo, learn how to please your new master by watching closely, ohooo, ooooh!
Love juices drip onto the ground as Lucifer continues shaking her hips.
W-Will I have to do this if I get enslaved too?!
Ahhn, that's right! There's no reason to worry, this is pure bliss♪
Lucifer doesn't even look her way, simply keeping up her perverted dance.
Hehe, you're just a foolish virgin who's gone too long without knowing the taste of a dick! You will be thanking him in no time!
We exist solely to please him, haaah♪ Hnng, ohoo!
Lucifer starts moving faster, and milk starts spilling out from her tits.
*Spluurt! Spluuuurt!*
Hnnng, ohoooo! Please watch my slutty dance! I'll be as perverted as possible to, haah, please you Master♪
*Spluuurt!*
A shower of breast milk erupts from her tits, filling the area with a sweet scent.
She continues rocking her hips around desperately the whole time, of course, as if her lower half is on fire.
Haaaah♪ Thank you so much for ruling over us with your wonderful dick, master, haah, ohoooo!
Hahaha, that's it! You look absolutely ridiculous! Haha, you should start putting in this much effort when you're stroking my dick, hag!
Haaaah♪ Thank you so much for ruling over us with your wonderful dick, Master, haah, ohoooo!
Lucifer sticks out her pussy, love juices dripping onto the floor in large amounts.
Please, haaah, feel free to join in my dance at any time, Master, hnng, haah!
Hnng, show the power of your dick to these new followers! Use me and set an example for them!
Haha, you're getting better at begging! All right, I did promise you a reward, so I guess I'll use you!
I get up behind Lucifer and enter her from behind.
Hnng, ohooo, look closely! This is the power of our master's dick, hnng, haah, ahhh!
Stop squealing and start moving those hips! Come on, you said you'd please me, didn't you?!
Lucifer sticks out her tits the moment my dick enters her pussy, and I start rocking my hips to make her start moving too.
Hnng, I will! I'll please you to celebrate! I'll put on the best dick dance there is, haah! Your dick is being so rough♪
Each stroke makes Lucifer cry out in joy, and she starts rocking her own hips along with my movements.
Ahh… I can't believe he's making Lucifer act like that...
That's right, haah, that's how powerful our master's dick is♪
Just one stroke against my pregnant womb is enough, haah♪ I'm ready to give everything to this dick from that♪ This feels so good, I'll dance faster!
That's right, keep dancing! Show these sluts how it's done!
I start violently stirring up Lucifer from behind.
*Squelch! Smack! Squelch!*
Ohoooo, I will♪ Watch! Watch closely, hnng, look how my tits and belly are jiggling from this rough dick!
My dick is stroked relentlessly by Lucifer's tight insides as I stir her up.
Hnng, haah, y-your dick is being so rough! Haah, it's gouging out my insides, ohoooo!
Ohooo, ahh, I'll die! This feels too good, I'll die from this! It's too rough, oooh!
Huh?! It has the power to kill someone so strong?! W-What strength...
Haha, looks like there's some dumb virgin hags out in the crowd tonight! That's it, watch the strength of my dick closely!
I start moving even faster to show off the power of my dick.
Hnng, your dick is too strong! I no longer have any other purpose in life, haaah, but to serve this dick♪
Ahh, i-if you swear your allegiance to this dick then, ohooo, you'll get to taste this incredible pleasure too, ohoo!
Lucifer's thighs tremble fiercely, and her tongue practically dangles from her mouth like a bitch in heat.
Hnnng, haaah, even gods have no idea how good it feels to be knocked up by this dick♪
That's right! And I'm so kind, I'll even knock up you cocky sluts if you bow down to me!
I thrust deep into Lucifer's pussy, and a spray of love juices shoots onto the ground below.
Hnng, ooh, look at my pregnant belly, hnng! Look how it jiggles with each thrust of this dick, haaah♪
Lucifer proudly sticks out her chest, showing off her tits and pregnant belly to the crowd.
Ahhh, you must learn the true bliss of, hnng, being impregnated by this incredible dick♪
I've never felt anything even close to it in all the years I've been the Demon Queen! I'm so glad I became his slave!
Lucifer sticks out her ass, her pussy squeezing my dick tightly.
I'll make you even happier then! I'm going to fuck you harder! This hag pussy isn't enough on its own, after all!
Hnng, oooh, even rougher♪ I-I'll try to keep up… hnng, haah, it's hitting my womb! It keeps striking my womb!
Lucifer howls in joy each time my dick knocks against the depth of her pussy.
*Smack! Squelch! Smack!*
Hnnng, oooh, your dick is stirring up my pussy! I'm getting so wet, haah, m-my pussy is drowning, ohoo!
Ahhg, haah, I-I've been waiting to be fucked this hard since we started conquering! I-It's so rough, i-it's going to make me give birth!
Keep it in until I'm done fucking you at least! I'm going even harder, so suck it up!
I thrust forward, rocking my hips like I'm dancing with her.
Haah! Okay, ahh, remind my hag pussy how powerful your dick is, hnnng!
Lucifer's tits start jumping around even more fiercely, and her pussy is now squirting non-stop.
Ahh, your dick is going so deep, haaah! I-I'm going to cum before you!
You can't even endure one round before cumming?! What a useless hag! Try harder!
I rub the head of my dick against Lucifer's womb, enjoying the intense pleasure spreading through my shaft.
*Smack! Squelch! Smack!*
Hnnng, oooh, Master, I-I will! I'll squeeze, hnng?! Your dick is too rough!
Haah, I can't stop it, no matter how hard I squeeze! My hag pussy is g-going to break! Cumming!
Lucifer's pussy starts quivering fiercely around my dick as she approaches climax, which pushes me towards my limit too.
Hnng! This is it, ahh, ohooo, I can feel your semen approaching! Hnng, I'll suck it out with my pussy!
The urge to ejaculate starts quickly building up in my dick, making me thrust harder on instinct.
Good, if you want me to cum then you better work harder!
I want it♪ I'll make sure I get pregnant right after I give birth, so please, empty your balls inside my pussy!
I will if you show off to everyone watching just how slutty you are! Show them what life awaits them!
Okay♪ Please show them the power of your dick knocking up my hag pussy! That will show them what is in store for them from now on!
Ohooo, creampie me♪ Fill up my hag pussy with lots of your thick dick juices!
Lucifer's pussy tightens up so much it nearly hurts, pushing me past the point of no return.
There it is! I'm going to cum inside your ancient hag pussy!
Thank you so much! H-Hurry, lubricate my hag pussy with your fresh semen, haah! B-Before I cum!!
Ohooo, your dick is going so deep! Just like that, hnng! Cumming, cumming! Fill up my pregnant pussy, ohooo! Cumming!
*Spluurt! Spluuuurt!*
hnng, ohooo,ahhh, hnnng, my pussy is cumming! Ohooo, I can't stop!
Lucifer starts squirting hard the moment I cum inside her, like she's ejaculating as well.
Ohooo, oooh, cumming, cumming! Hnng, your thick semen is filling my womb! I'm cumming♪
Ahhh, today is a special occasion, so I'll let you cum non-stop, hag!
I enjoy the pleasure of my orgasm as I listen to the BGM of Lucifer's moans.
hnnng, ooh, ahhh, thank you so much! B-But your semen is too thick, hnng!
Ohooo, it's so thick, it's plugging my womb! Haah, there's so much, ooooh!
Hahaha, well if it's too thick for your hag pussy then I know just how to thin it out!
I loosen up and start peeing inside of Lucifer's pussy.
*Tinkle, tinkle!*
Ohoooo, ahhh, p-pee! Ahhn, haah, it's filling me up!
Lucifer starts twitching in joy as she climaxes once more.
Th-Thank you so much, ahhh, th-this is definitely lubricating my hag pussy♪ I-I'll get pregnant right away again after giving birth now!
Yeah, you better! That's what you're here for, after all! I'll keep knocking you up!
*Tinkle, tinkle!*
Hnnng, o-of course! I-I'll even get pregnant from this pee, haah, ohooo, I'm cumming!
The goddess and her followers simply watch the spectacle in awe.
Haah… even just his pee is making Lucifer react like that… I-I want it too...
Hnng… m-my body is tingling...
Looks like they liked your show, huh!
Haah, ahhh, o-of course, no one can resist the power of your dick, ohooo!
Hahaha, that's true! Now cover the sluts in piss and cum and make them even hornier!
I violently pull my dick out of Lucifer's pussy.
*Tinkle, tinkle, spluuuurt!*
Ohoooo, I-I'm peeing, oooh, ahh, it's coming out, haaah!
Lucifer spreads her legs, showering the crowd in all sorts of juices.
Ahhn, haah, enjoy this wonderful shower of dick juices!
Hey, don't mix in your own hag piss in there, now it's just dirty!
Hnng, I'm terribly sorry, ohooo! But, haah, I can't stop it, haah, I can't stop!
*Spluuurt!*
It looks like my plan worked, as the sluts watching all suddenly turn to me in excitement.
Hnng, ahh, this smell is so strong… I-I can't wait...
H-Hurry, violate me too! Do me too!
Hahaha, looks like it worked! You sluts are all the same!
Ahhhn, ohooo, accept your master's dick juice shower!
Hahaha, guess I have a long day ahead of me, huh! Okay, I'll fuck you all!
Hnnng, please do! Use me lots more as your sex toy and personal toilet, ohooo, more is coming out!
*Spluuurt!*
Lucifer's joyous cries continue bellowing through the area.
Those moans remind me of the fun life I have ahead of me, and I can't help but grin in excitement.
I'll start with the goddess hag! After that I'll move through the rest of the sluts I've conquered!
And with that I start enjoying my various new sex toys—